

Bavinck, RD vol2
search all text for “goodness”


Creation: In the Beginning Page 20
Here the pastoral purpose of good creation theology becomes clear; our heavenly Father is Almighty God, the Creator of heaven and earth, who turns all things to our good.

Chapter 1: The Incomprehensibility of God Page 27
    Philosophers, notably in the Platonist tradition, see God (the Good) as the distant One, the unknowable One, transcending even Being itself. 

God and the Gods Page 35
Similarly in The Republic VI, 19, he states that the deity or idea of the good transcends not only all that exists but even “Being itself.” 

God and the Gods Page 35
God is absolutely one—above all plurality—and therefore not describable in terms of thought or the good, not even in terms of being, for all these determinations still imply a certain plurality. 

God and the Gods Page 35
As pure unity, God is indeed the cause of thought, being, and the good, but he himself is distinct from them and transcends them. 

God and the Gods Page 35
Even the terms “the One” and “the Good,” which Plotinus usually employs, do not describe his essence but only his relation to his creatures, and only denote his absolute causality.10

Divine Incomprehensibility in Christian Theology Page 36


Herman Bavinck, John Bolt, and John Vriend, Reformed Dogmatics: God and Creation, vol. 2 (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 2004), 20–36.

If we nevertheless call him “one,” “good,” “Father,” “Creator,” “Lord,” and so forth, we do not thereby express his true essence but only his power. 

Divine Incomprehensibility in Christian Theology Page 37
“Nor can any words come up to the inexpressible Good, this One, this Source of all unity, this supraexistent Being. 

The Mystery of an Absolute, Personal God Page 49
Furthermore, if absoluteness precludes all limitation, and all determination is negation, it is not only not permissible to speak of God as personality, but it is equally wrong still to call him the Absolute, unity, the good, essential being, substance (etc.). 

The Implanted Knowledge of God Page 59
Though truth and falsehood, good and evil, right and wrong, and beauty and ugliness are not quantifiable entities and cannot be perceived by the five senses, they are things the reality of which is much more firmly fixed in our consciousness than that of matter and force. 

Innate Ideas in Philosophy Page 62
The greatest possible divergence of opinion exists with respect to good and evil. 

Natural Theology Pages 66–67
Calvin made a distinction between general and special grace and explained all the good still left also in sinful humans in terms of the former.44 

Natural Theology Page 67
Zanchius, rejecting both Plato and Aristotle [on this point], joins the Stoics and Cicero in teaching that “the ideas common to us all are inborn, not furnished by experience”; that children are immediately aware that three is more than two and that good and evil differ (etc.). 

Natural Theology Page 68
All this in the same manner in which by virtue of a natural inclination the will pursues the good and the eye looks at the light and things that are visible. 

Objections to Innate Ideas Page 70
Now we see, however, that, though all people possess a capacity for speech, they still speak very different languages; that, though all have an idea of God, they clothe that idea in a wide array of representations; that there are people who say in their heart that there is no God; that, though the difference between good and evil is known everywhere, the content of these two categories is defined in very divergent ways; that human opinions on right and wrong, on beauty and ugliness, differ radically. 

Innate Disposition Page 71
The laws of thought are the same for all; the theory of numbers is everywhere the same; the difference between good and evil is known by all. 

Innate Disposition Page 72
Just as people, upon opening their eyes, automatically see the sun and by its light discern objects, so by their very nature—the moment they hear that there is a God and a difference between good and evil—they must assent to these statements. 

Proofs for God’s Existence Page 78
Calvin, taking as his starting point “the seed of religion,” saw incontrovertible signs and testimonies of God’s majesty in “every particle of the universe”: in the starry heavens, in the human body, in the soul, in the preservation of all things (etc.); but, having said this, he immediately reminds us that this “seed of religion,” though ineradicably implanted in all humans, can be choked and cannot bear good fruit. 

The Teleological Argument Page 83
Accordingly, in recent years G. Wolff, H. Driesch, J. Reinke, and earlier already Fechner and K. E. von Baer, and many others have recognized the good right of teleology to play a role alongside causality. 

The Ontological Argument Page 84
(1) From the general ideas and norms present in the human mind, that is, from that reason which transcends our individual reason and that of the entire world, it deduces the existence of absolute Reason, the sum total of all those ideas and norms, absolute truth, goodness, and beauty, that is, God (Plato, Augustine, Boethius, Anselm in his Monologium). 

The Moral Argument Pages 85–86
The moral argument, noting the moral phenomena occurring in the life of humankind—conscience, moral responsibility, repentance, reward and punishment, virtue and happiness, the fear of death and judgment, the triumph of the good, and so forth—infers from them the existence of a moral being who created and maintains that moral world order. 

The Moral Argument Page 86
Then, in the human consciousness, the motive for an act is gradually abstracted from the act itself and viewed as either good or bad. 

The Moral Argument Page 86
Against this moral argument—second—Fichte and after him all the proponents of an independent ethics try to demonstrate that the moral consciousness present in humans does not warrant the inference of a personal God but only of a moral world order, that is, a world order in which there is room for the good, a chance for virtue to maintain itself and to secure the victory for itself.92

The Moral Argument Page 86
Third, there is the obvious objection that often there is little evidence of the power of the good and of a moral world order. 

The Moral Argument Page 86
The wicked often even enjoy prosperity and peace, while the righteous are persecuted and oppressed; and nature seems so totally indifferent to issues of good and evil that with its disasters and catastrophes it time and again strikes those who cannot possibly be other than innocent.

The Moral Argument Page 87
These objections can undoubtedly all be refuted on good grounds. 

The Moral Argument Page 87
The theory of evolution has until now proved unable to explain the origin and essence of the human moral consciousness and in attempting to do so always confuses the good with the pleasant and the useful. 

The Moral Argument Page 87
The idea of a moral world order apart from a personal, righteous, and holy God cannot be clearly conceived and ends with the apotheosis of the abstract power of goodness. 

Chapter 3: The Names of God Page 96
    God was the Father, the fountain of goodness and love; he is not Absolute Being but Love. 

Chapter 3: The Names of God Page 96
    In God “to be” is the same as to be wise, to be good, or to be powerful. 

Chapter 3: The Names of God Page 96
    God is the One who exists of and through himself, the perfect being who is absolute in wisdom and goodness, righteousness and holiness, power and blessedness.

Chapter 3: The Names of God Page 96
    In the former were included oneness, simplicity, immutability, eternity; the second group was usually divided further into attributes of intellect (knowledge, wisdom, veracity), will (goodness, righteousness, holiness), and power. 

Accommodation and Anthropomorphism Page 100
In Scripture, accordingly, he is called El, the strong One; El Shaddai, the mighty One; YHWH, the One who is there; he is called Father, Son, Spirit, good, merciful, gracious, just, holy (etc.); all of them are expressions that first of all apply to creatures and are then transferred to God by way of eminence. 

Naming the Nameless Page 105
Rauwenhoff trots out the imagination where the intellect had to quit.9 Numerous philosophers, therefore, defend the good right of anthropomorphism.10 

Archetypal and Ectypal Knowledge of God Page 108
But Thomas, rejecting this view, already correctly countered that in that case God could equally well be called “gold,” “silver,” “sun,” “moon,” “body,” and so on, since he is certainly the cause of these creations; furthermore, [he argued] that all of us mean something different and more when we say “God is good” than when we say “God is the cause of goodness.” 

Classifying God’s Names Page 111
Though Augustine does speak of God’s “essence,” he means by it the fullness of God’s being and immediately includes in it all God’s attributes (simplicity, eternity, goodness, wisdom, etc.). 

Names of Being Page 112
Augustine variously describes God as “supreme being,” “the supreme good, truth, beauty,” and so forth. 

Names of Being Page 113
And Augustine, too, appeals to the name YHWH to justify this description of God.32 We find the same description again later in Hilary, Pseudo-Dionysius (who, however, elsewhere proceeds from the idea of the good, which according to him is even broader in scope than that of essence), Anselm, Lombard, Thomas, Bonaventure, and many others.33 

Personal, Moral Names Page 115
For the doctrine of God this meant that the essence of God was exclusively identified with ethical goodness. 

Personal, Moral Names Page 115
Whereas Scholten proceeded from God’s absolute sovereignty,48 the so-called ethical modernists resisted his speculative intellectualism and monistic determinism and viewed God as Father, as the moral ideal, the power of the good and of holiness.49 

Personal, Moral Names Page 117
God is alternately described as “that which has being,” “absolute being,” “absolute substance”; or as “Sovereign,” “the Lord,” “the Supreme Being”; or as “infinite Spirit,” “absolute causality,” “absolute personality”; or as the “Father,” “love,” “the personal almighty will of love,” “goodness,” and so forth. 

Personal, Moral Names Pages 117–118
Jansen saw especially God’s veracity, Francis de Sales his love, Vincent his goodness, St. Cyran his omnipotence.66 

Divine Simplicity; Essence and Attributes Page 118
In God “to be is the same as to be wise, which is the same as to be good, which is the same as to be powerful. 

Divine Simplicity; Essence and Attributes Page 118
One and the same thing is stated whether it be said that God is eternal or immortal or good or just.” 

Divine Simplicity; Essence and Attributes Page 118
Also Philo, reflecting Plato’s influence, often represented the divine energies—especially his goodness, power, and rationality (logos)—as hypostases (substances).70 

Divine Simplicity; Essence and Attributes Page 119
Doedes, continuing along this line, first treated those characteristics that are given with the idea of deity, such as oneness, incommunicability, incomparability, incomprehensibility, independence (etc.), and subsequently those characteristics that additionally apply to the divine being and are only five in number: omnipotence, wisdom, goodness, love, and holiness.78 

Personal Absolute Being Page 124
If God is the absolutely existing being, he is also absolute in wisdom and goodness, in righteousness and holiness, in power and blessedness. 

Distinction of Attributes Page 124
Consequently, all the other attributes—for example, goodness, wisdom, power—must in reality coincide with it, for all God’s attributes are synonymous. 

Distinction of Attributes Page 124
In calling God “good” we at the same time thereby call him “just,” “powerful,” and so on.94 

Distinction of Attributes Page 125
The Palamites of the fourteenth century were named after Gregory Palamas, archbishop of Thessalonica, who taught a kind of emanation theory and who represented the acts of God in creation, providence, and so on, as well as the attributes of omnipotence, goodness, wisdom, and so forth, as eternal emissions of light from the unknowable divine essence, emissions that were essentially distinct from the divine essence and had to be viewed as a kind of inferior deities. 

Distinction of Attributes Page 125
Therefore, with reference to the different attributes (such as goodness, wisdom, etc.), we do not just use different names but in that connection really entertain different ideas. 

Distinction of Attributes Page 126
So, whereas God is certainly identical with the attributes of “divinity, goodness, wisdom, paternity, sonship,” and so on, these attributes themselves are not interchangeable with each other. 

Distinction of Attributes Page 126
“That which is justice is also itself goodness, and that which is goodness is also itself blessedness. 

Distinction of Attributes Page 126
His greatness is the same as his wisdom, for he is not greater in size but in virtue, and his goodness is the same as his wisdom and his greatness, and his truth is the same as all of these; and with respect to him it is not one thing to be blessed and another to be great or wise, or true or to be good, or in general to be himself.”103 

Two or Three Ways Page 130
Indeed, he is wise and good and holy and glorious—but not in the way his creatures are. 

Two or Three Ways Page 130
Mysticism, which loved to speak of God in this way, said that God was above all wisdom, goodness, holiness, life, being, even above all divinity, not to deny that God was all these things, but to inculcate that he was all these things in a way that infinitely surpassed our comprehension. 

Classifying God’s Attributes Page 131
Plato already taught that God is inherently good, whereas creatures are good by participation (μετοχη). 

Classifying God’s Attributes Page 134
In the same way the positive names—such as “good,” “holy,” “wise”—have some meaning to our mind, because we observe examples (ectypes) of them in creatures.130 

Classifying God’s Attributes Page 135
One can even say on good grounds that because the attributes are in reality identical with God’s being and, in God, identical with each other as well, no classification will be found that is objectively based on the attributes themselves.

Classifying God’s Attributes Page 136
Third, there are the attributes that refer to God’s ethical nature: goodness, righteousness, and holiness. 

God’s Proper Names Page 137
It has been linked to the word good, to the Avestan khoda (self-existent), to the Sanskrit gudha, or gutha, which is said to refer to God as “the hidden One.” Other possibilities are the Indo-Germanic root ghu (Sanskrit hû), which means “to call upon” and is therefore said to refer to God as “the One called upon,” or to a stem κοδω (κοσμος), which is said to mean “to order, to arrange,” or to the Aryan cuddhas (pure, good). 

Chapter 4: God’s Incommunicable Attributes Page 150
His counsel and good pleasure is the ultimate ground of all that is and happens (Ps. 33:11; Prov. 19:21; Isa. 46:10; Matt. 11:26; Acts 2:23; 4:28; Eph. 1:5, 9, 11). 

Chapter 4: God’s Incommunicable Attributes Page 150
Thus, being all-sufficient in himself and not receiving anything from outside of himself, he is, by contrast, the only source of all existence and life, of all light and love, the overflowing fountain of all good (Ps. 36:10; Acts 17:25).

Independence Page 151
By virtue of himself he is goodness, holiness, wisdom, life, light, truth, and so on. 

Independence Page 151
He is supreme (summum) in everything: supreme being (esse), supreme goodness (bonum), supreme truth (verum), supreme beauty (pulchrum). 

Independence Page 151
“If you have said of God that he is good, great, blessed, wise or any other such quality, it is summed up in a single word: he is (Est). 

Immutability Page 154
In creatures the only change is from nonbeing to being, from good to evil.22 

Omnipresence Page 168
It is therefore a good thing in connection with each attribute to remind ourselves that we are speaking of God in human terms.84 

Omnipresence Page 170
  He is good, if you have been good; and he seems evil to you if you have been evil; a helper if you have been good, an avenger if you have been bad. 

Simplicity Page 174
Theology later taught this doctrine of Scripture under the term “the simplicity of God.” Irenaeus calls God “all thought, all perception, all eye, all hearing, the one fountain of all good things.”99 

Chapter 5: God’s Communicable Attributes Page 180
    The first of God’s moral attributes is his goodness. 

Chapter 5: God’s Communicable Attributes Page 180
    God’s goodness is perfection, the sum of all goodness. 

Chapter 5: God’s Communicable Attributes Page 180
    God is also the supreme good of all creatures, the object of every creature’s desire. 

Chapter 5: God’s Communicable Attributes Page 180
    As the overflowing fountain of all good, God’s goodness is manifested to his creatures as steadfast love, as mercy, as forbearance, and most wonderfully as grace. 

Chapter 5: God’s Communicable Attributes Page 180
    When God’s goodness conveys not only benefits but God himself, it appears as love. 

Chapter 5: God’s Communicable Attributes Page 180
    God is holy as well as good, morally perfect. 

Chapter 5: God’s Communicable Attributes Page 181
    His will is one with his being, his wisdom, goodness, and all his other perfections. 

Chapter 5: God’s Communicable Attributes Page 181
    Though evil is under God’s control, it cannot be the object of his will as is the good. 

Chapter 5: God’s Communicable Attributes Page 181
    That the actual will of God is the will of his good pleasure, that this will is identical with God’s being and efficacious, is most consistently taught in Reformed theology. 

Foreknowledge Page 197
Along with omnipotence and goodness Marcion also denied omniscience to God on the ground that he allowed humanity to fall into sin.77 

The Problem of Middle Knowledge Page 201
Grace is dispensed, according to merit; predestination depends on good works. 

Wisdom Page 206
Accordingly, we speak of an idea of God, of freedom, of art, of science, of the true, the good, and the beautiful (etc.). 

Wisdom Page 207
Evil is known in light of the idea of the good of which it is the privation.118 

Trustworthiness Page 208
All being or essence as such is true and beautiful and good. 

Trustworthiness Pages 208–209
Granted, there is immense diversity in degrees of creaturely being; yet all things have received from God a unique being of their own and as such participate in the divine being.122 

Trustworthiness Page 209
God is the “supreme being, the supreme truth, and the supreme good.” 


Herman Bavinck, John Bolt, and John Vriend, Reformed Dogmatics: God and Creation, vol. 2 (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 2004), 36–209.

But according to his consequent grace, which takes account of the good or bad use that people have made of their freedom or of the grace of God, God does not will the salvation of all. 

Augustine and the Pelagian Challenge Page 354
According to Molina, God by a mediate knowledge saw in advance that some humans would make a good use of this—repeatedly offered—grace, and consequently decided to bestow it. 

The Reformation Return to Paul and Augustine Page 356
The Formula of Concord, moreover, declared in very clear terms that humans are by nature incapable of doing any spiritual good, and that faith is, in the strictest sense, a gift of God. 

The Reformation Return to Paul and Augustine Page 356
In his thinking the confession of predestination was based solely on anthropological grounds, on the profound corruption of sin and human powerlessness to do good. 

The Reformation Return to Paul and Augustine Page 356
Luther, accordingly, increasingly avoided the speculative doctrine of predestination, the will of divine good pleasure, the hidden God, preferring to focus on the ministry of Word and sacraments, to which grace is bound, and giving increasing prominence to God’s universal redemptive will, his expressed will. 

Supra- and Infralapsarianism Page 362
“God is good; God is just. 

Supra- and Infralapsarianism Page 362
He can deliver some humans who do not merit the good, because he is good. 

Supra- and Infralapsarianism Page 362
To the question why God rejected some and chose others, particularly why he rejected this specific person and chose another, there is no answer other than the will and sovereign good pleasure of God. 

Supra- and Infralapsarianism Page 363
Election, accordingly, does not occur on the basis of foreseen faith or foreseen good works, or for Christ’s sake. 

Supra- and Infralapsarianism Page 363
Thus many Thomists (Alvarez, the Salmanticenses, Estius, Sylvius, and others) taught that negative reprobation occurs prior to the fall and is purely an act of divine sovereignty and good pleasure.63 

Supra- and Infralapsarianism Pages 363–364
Like them, the Reformers taught that election was not dependent on foreseen merits but was itself the source of faith and good works; that predestination to glory unfailingly carried with it a predestination to grace; that negative reprobation could not be interpreted as an act of justice, but should be viewed as an act of sovereignty occurring prior to the commission of sin; that this negative reprobation resulted in a decree to permit sin and to allow some to remain in their fallen state; and that positive reprobation took sin into account. 

Supra- and Infralapsarianism Page 364
He freely permitted it to happen, since doing so seemed good to him.68

Remonstrance and Resistance Pages 369–370
From this viewpoint it is said: “Just as certain as it is that every human is not only predisposed but also predetermined toward evil, so certain is it that every human is not only predisposed but also predetermined toward the good.… 

The Scope of God’s Decree Page 371
A third group attempts to reconcile the two positions by teaching that grace is granted to those who make good use of the natural powers of the will and earnestly study the Word of God.102 Kaftan, accordingly, was not altogether wrong when he wrote: “Modern German theology does not have a doctrine of election.”103 

The Scope of God’s Decree Page 373
All that exists is ultimately grounded in God’s good pleasure (εὐδοκια του θεου). 

Providence Page 376
God’s good pleasure alone explains all being and all diversity of being. 

Providence Page 376
The existence of a thing and the specificity of a thing, the multiplicity of life and being, the infinite diversity among creatures in kind, gender, longevity, rank, social position, wealth (etc.)—they all are attributable to God’s good pleasure and God’s good pleasure alone.

Providence Page 376
This divine good pleasure, moreover, does not presuppose but creates its object. 

Providence Page 376
And indeed the only appropriate reaction of a creature is to acquiesce in God’s good pleasure. 


Herman Bavinck, John Bolt, and John Vriend, Reformed Dogmatics: God and Creation, vol. 2 (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 2004), 354–376.



The Six Days of Creation Page 481
At the end of the second day we do not read that God saw that it was good. 

The Six Days of Creation Page 482
“God saw everything that he had made, and indeed, it was very good” (Gen. 1:31). 

Critique of Darwinism Page 518
Add to this that especially August Weismann, but also others, have on good grounds defended the thesis that precisely the acquired properties are not transmitted by heredity, so that on this subject and on heredity in general there are enormous differences of opinion.24 

Critique of Darwinism Page 520
And the derivation of morality from human social instincts fails to do justice to the authority of the moral law, to the categorical character of the moral imperative, to the “imperatives” of the good, to conscience, responsibility, the sense of sin, repentance, remorse, and punishment. 

The Unity of the Human Race Page 524
He too assumed the existence of many races of people before Adam, but these had so elevated and developed themselves from their inferior animal status that finally they brought forth him in whom humanness first manifested itself and could therefore bear the name of the human (“ha-adam”) with good warrant. 

The Unity of the Human Race Page 525
Genesis 10, accordingly, maintains the unity of the race in the face of all diversity and Johann von Müller with good reason said, “All history must start with this chapter.”

Defining the Image Page 534
Consequently, its adherents could not conceive holiness as a divine gift bestowed on humanity at the outset, but only as a good that he had to achieve by his own moral efforts.9 

Naturalism Page 537
He was neither positively good, nor positively evil, but stood somewhere in between; he was morally indifferent and could do one thing as well as another. 

Naturalism Page 537
In actual fact he was nothing; potentially he was everything, pious and wicked, holy and unholy, good and evil. 

Naturalism Page 537
Now, as we will note in the following section, there is an element of truth in this picture insofar as the first humans had not yet attained the highest good and hence still had to develop. 

Naturalism Page 537
Creation in the image of God (Gen. 1:27; Eccles. 7:29; Eph. 4:24; Col. 3:10), the blessing of procreation and multiplication (Gen. 1:28), divine approval (Gen. 1:31), the probationary command (Gen. 2:16–17), the naming of the animals (Gen. 2:19–20), the pronouncement about Eve (Gen. 2:23–24), the manner of the temptation (Gen. 3:1ff.), and the attitude of Adam and Eve after the fall (Gen. 3:7ff.)—all attest to the truth that the first humans were created positively good, not morally indifferent. 

Naturalism Page 538
If Adam had been created a positively holy being, he was necessarily good and without freedom to be otherwise.25 

Naturalism Page 538
As a result, these theologians have to dream up a state between good and evil, holiness and unholiness, an undifferentiated state that is anterior to the moral dimension either in a good or a bad sense, and from which humans then have to evolve by an act of free will in one direction or another. 

Naturalism Page 538
Just as in nature only a good tree can produce good fruit, so also in ethical life a good nature precedes good works. 

Roman Catholic Supernaturalism Page 539
The essence of the state of glory increasingly came to be the vision of God according to his essence (per essentiam), deiformity or deification, a participation in the divine nature that was not only moral but corporeal, a “melting union” with God.28 Added to this doctrine of “the state of glory” was that of the meritorious nature of good works. 

Roman Catholic Supernaturalism Page 539
Infused grace, granted in baptism, was definitely necessary, but also enabled a person to do such good works as could ex condigno (by a full merit)29 earn eternal blessedness, the vision of God per essentiam.

Roman Catholic Supernaturalism Page 539
From these two ideas, the mystical view of man’s final destiny and the meritoriousness of good works, was born the Catholic doctrine of the “superadded gift” (donum superadditum). 

Roman Catholic Supernaturalism Pages 539–540
The heavenly blessedness and the vision of God, which is man’s final destiny—and was so for Adam—can be merited ex condigno only by such good works as are in accord with that final destiny. 

Roman Catholic Supernaturalism Page 542
On top of all this, then, comes the disagreement over the nature of the gratia gratum faciens, its relation to the Spirit of God, to the soul and its faculties, to the theological virtues, to good works, and so forth. 

Critique of Supernaturalism Page 543
The connection between the state of grace and that of glory, according to Rome, consists in the fact that in justification man receives infused grace, and by virtue of this grace performs good works which ex condigno merit eternal life. 

Critique of Supernaturalism Page 544
The meritorious value of good works can only be treated later. 

Critique of Supernaturalism Page 544
The good works of man never merit the glory of heaven; they are never of the same weight and worth (condignity). 

Critique of Supernaturalism Page 544
Rome, however, by introducing the idea of the meritoriousness of good works both in the case of the believer and that of Adam, fails to do full justice to grace. 

Critique of Supernaturalism Page 545
But in his will there still remains the power to do good, not to let inordinate lust issue into sinful deeds, and thus indeed to live a natural but still sinless life. 

Critique of Supernaturalism Page 545
According to many Catholic thinkers, it consists only negatively in a loss of the superadded gift that God in his good pleasure bestowed on the first human.43 

Critique of Supernaturalism Page 545
This explains Rome’s mellow judgment concerning unbaptized dying children and the pagans who have made good use of the light and powers of nature. 

Critique of Supernaturalism Page 547
Bellarmine clearly states that man is composed of flesh and spirit and therefore in part tends to a corporal good and in part to a spiritual good; and that “from these diverse or contrary propensities there exists a certain conflict in one and the same human being.” 

Rome and the Reformation Page 551
In Rome’s view a human being can lose the “supernatural righteousness” and still be a good, true, complete, sinless human, with a natural justice that in its kind is without any defect. 

Rome and the Reformation Page 552
Just as good health belongs to the nature of man, but is still “amissible,” that is, can still be lost, so it is with the image of God. 

Lutheran or Reformed Page 554
The loss of the image, which renders man totally deaf and blind in spiritual matters, still enables him in earthly matters to do much good and in a sense renders him independent from the grace of God in Christ. 

The Whole Person as the Image of God Page 557
To the degree that a given creature is on a lower level, it is also less intricately organized and hence less related to, and less susceptible of, the highest good, which is God. 

The Whole Person as the Image of God Page 558
Goodness, for a human being, consists in moral perfection, in complete harmony with the law of God, in holy and perfect being, like God himself (Lev. 19:2; Deut. 6:5; Matt. 5:48; 22:37; Eph. 5:1; 1 Pet. 1:15–16). 

The Whole Person as the Image of God Page 558
If man was created good, he must have been created with original justice. 

The Whole Person as the Image of God Page 558
The same was true of his righteousness and holiness; they were his from the beginning, for otherwise he could have never done any good work. 

The Whole Person as the Image of God Page 558
Good fruits presuppose a good tree; one must first be before he can do (operari sequitur esse). 

The Whole Person as the Image of God Page 558
No truly good and perfect human being is even conceivable apart from the fellowship of the Holy Spirit. 

Chapter 13: Human Destiny Page 563
    The Roman Catholic doctrine of the donum superadditum, though it seeks to honor the conviction that eternal life is a gift of grace, in fact reintroduces meritorious good works. 

Covenant with Adam: Only the Beginning Pages 567–568
Materially, however, it is nevertheless embodied in articles 14 and 15 of the Belgic Confession, where we read that man’s entire nature was corrupted by Adam’s transgression of the command of life;16 in Lord’s Day 3 and 4 of the Heidelberg Catechism (Q. & A. 6–11) it is said that man was created in God’s image, so that he might live with God in eternal happiness, but humankind is also described as totally corrupted by Adam’s fall; and in chapter III/IV of the Canons of Dort it is stated that Adam’s corruption spread to all his descendants “by God’s just judgment.” 

Covenant with Adam: Only the Beginning Page 568
Generally, a covenant is an agreement between persons who voluntarily obligate and bind themselves to each other for the purpose of fending off an evil or obtaining a good. 


Herman Bavinck, John Bolt, and John Vriend, Reformed Dogmatics: God and Creation, vol. 2 (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 2004), 475–568.



Covenant with Adam: Only the Beginning Page 569
And even where the word does not occur, we nevertheless always see the two parties, as it were, in dialogue with each other, dealing with each other, with God calling people to conversion, reminding them of their obligations, and obligating himself to provide all that is good. 

Covenant with Adam: Only the Beginning Page 570
But Scripture insists on both: God is infinitely great and condescendingly good; he is Sovereign but also Father; he is Creator but also Prototype. 

Covenant with Adam: Only the Beginning Page 570
For they have the freedom to come to him with prayer and thanksgiving, to address him as “Father,” to take refuge in him in all circumstances of distress and death, to desire all good things from him, even to expect salvation and eternal life from him. 

Covenant with Adam: Only the Beginning Page 570
All this is possible solely because God in his condescending goodness gives rights to his creature. 

Covenant with Adam: Only the Beginning Page 570
True religion, accordingly, cannot be anything other than a covenant: it has its origin in the condescending goodness and grace of God. 

Covenant with Adam: Only the Beginning Page 571
God is never indebted to us, but we are always indebted to him for the good works we do (Belgic Confession, art. 24). 

Reformed and Other Views of Human Destiny Page 571
Under the guise of honoring grace, Rome therefore again introduces the meritoriousness of good works. 

Reformed and Other Views of Human Destiny Page 572
No need is felt to connect it backward with eternal election and forward with the whole of the Christian life, good works, and eternal life. 

Reformed and Other Views of Human Destiny Page 573
Reformed theologians rightly pointed out, therefore, that this possibility, this being changeably good, this still being able to sin and die, was no part or component of the image of God, but was its boundary, its limitation, its circumference.26 

Human Destiny in Community Page 577
It is not good that the man should be alone (Gen. 2:18); nor is it good that the man and woman should be alone. 

Creation and Traducianism Page 586
Perseverance is not a higher good granted in Christ to his own. 

Chapter 14: Providence Page 591
    God is Almighty Father: able and desirous of turning everything to our good.

Chapter 14: Providence Page 592
What other people meant for evil against them, God turned to their good (Gen. 50:20); no weapon fashioned against them will succeed (Isa. 54:17); even the hairs on their head are all numbered (Matt. 10:30); all things work together for their good (Rom. 8:28). 

The Problem of Pantheism Page 600
To that extent it even recognized a “fate,” and some theologians believed they could also use the word in a good sense. 

The Problem of Deism Pages 603–604
“Fate” could, in a pinch, still have a good meaning in the Christian world-and-life view; but chance (casus) and fortune (fortuna) are un-Christian through and through. 

Concurrence: Secondary Causes Page 614
He is “at work” [in us] “both to will and to do for his good pleasure” (Phil. 2:13). 

Providence as Government Page 616
And this government of God over his rational creatures extends not only to the good things of which he is the Giver both in nature and in grace (James 1:17); nor only to the beneficiaries of his favor, whom he chooses, preserves, cares for, and leads to eternal salvation; but also to evil and to those who love evil and do it. 

Providence as Government Page 618
He is the creator of light and darkness, of good and evil (Amos 3:6; Isa. 45:7; Job 2:10). 

Providence as Government Page 619
For the providence of God encompasses all things, not only the good but also sin and suffering, sorrow and death. 

Providence as Government Page 619
In all circumstances of life, it gives us good confidence in our faithful God and Father that he will provide whatever we need for body and soul and that he will turn to our good whatever adversity he sends us in this sad world, since he is able to do this as almighty God and desires to do this as a faithful Father.91

Books Page 624
  ———. Concerning the Nature of the Good, against the Manichaeans. 


Herman Bavinck, John Bolt, and John Vriend, Reformed Dogmatics: God and Creation, vol. 2 (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 2004), 568–624.

