
text search on "goodness"
Heppe's RD


               X.      Angels Good and Bad

Ernst Bizer's Preface 
From start to finish orthodox theology has steadfastly maintained that for good or ill theology has a "doctrine", and that this is not its smallest merit. 

Ernst Bizer's Preface 
The Church works through the Word, and so must for good or ill be able to state what word she intends to work by. 

Chapter I: Natural and Revealed Theology Pages 1–2
The most essential content of natural religion is given by RIISSEN thus (I, 7): "(1) that God is, (2) and that He must be worshipped, (3) that we must live good lives, (4) that the soul is immortal, (5) that a reward is due to virtue, punishment to wickedness".

Chapter I: Natural and Revealed Theology Page 2
At the same time conscience teaches man to know God as Him who loves and rewards goodness, abhors and punishes evil and to whom he is absolutely responsible. 

Chapter I: Natural and Revealed Theology Page 2
(i) Man the sinner retained reason, to which nature and an ingrained idea and notion of Deity suggested that which was known of God (Rom. 1:19): God making the revelation through nature; and (ii) God's ποιήματα brought to their notice and view the invisible things of Him from the creation, namely His everlasting divinity and power; and (iii) conscience, which, bearing in its bosom the work of the law written in man's heart and so the good and bad taught by that law, as it were powerfully defends man in things rightly done before God the Judge, accusing him in those badly done (Rom. 2:15.). 

Chapter I: Natural and Revealed Theology Page 2
I say nothing of the countless and pregnant proofs by which reason incontrovertibly (ἀναντιῤῥήτως) maintains that God the rewarder of good and the punisher of evil exists without the help of any revelation or tradition.

Chapter I: Natural and Revealed Theology Page 2
E.g., CALVIN (I, v, 3,): "Man is a microcosmos, because he is a rare specimen of the divine power, wisdom and goodness.-Within, 

Chapter I: Natural and Revealed Theology Page 3
Man the sinner-can in no wise know the will and good pleasure of God outside of His revelation. 

Chapter I: Natural and Revealed Theology Page 4
As regards God it has this use, that it renders the man who blames fate, the μεμψίμοιρος, without excuse, ἀναπολόγητος, Rom. 7:20, as regards man it profits to this extent, that both the not yet regenerate seeking God and His salvation in nature, if haply they may grope after and find Him Ac. 17:27, in grace or by the Word of God, the Spirit of God taking the lead, take it up and greet it when found: and the regenerate already taught from God's word about the true God and the way of His salvation, a return as it were to nature having been instituted, look up more also from God's admirable works to His power, wisdom and goodness, worship His majesty and put all their trust in the one and only God of Israel, who alone doeth such things."

Chapter I: Natural and Revealed Theology Page 4
7.-Man is aware in his conscience that he is a transgressor against God's commandment and thereby guilty in God's sight; and yet by his natural knowledge of God he knows God only as the righteous judge of good and evil. 

Chapter II: Holy Scripture Page 24
This trust is followed by gladness which rests in God and invokes Him, with the certain hope of obtaining good things which we ask for in accordance with the prescription of the Word. 

Chapter II: Holy Scripture Page 27
hist., is that attribute of H. Scripture, "by which H. Scripture is understood to be infallibly true with a veritas θεόπνευστος, so far as the historical writers, in setting forth historically all the dogmas, decrees, words, deeds, good or bad, which are contained in the Bible, are believed to have received them from the mouth and by the direct revelation of God, and to have shewn them to us without any error". 

Chapter II: Holy Scripture Page 27
According to the former whatever is narrated in Scripture is most true, just as it is narrated, whether good or bad, true or false. 

Chapter II: Holy Scripture Page 30
There subscribed, we admit, very well-known theologians of our own, who yet rightly reject the Papacy, since canonical doctrine comprised in several books does by the abundant goodness of God most surely survive in books today. 

Chapter II: Holy Scripture Page 31
Had it been God's good pleasure, He could have maintained the pure knowledge and attestation of His truth even without the medium of a H. Scripture. - CALVIN says (I, vi, 3): "If we consider how slippery is the lapse of man's mind into forgetfulness of God, how great his proclivity for every kind of error, how great his passion for fashioning simultaneously new and fictitious religions, it will easily be realised, how necessary such a sealing of heavenly doctrine has been, to prevent its extinction in oblivion, its disappearance in error or its corruption by man's presumption."

Chapter II: Holy Scripture Page 35
BUCAN sums up the main positions on the doctrine of Scripture exegesis in the following three theses (IV, 21–24): (1) "Interpretation of Scripture is the unfolding of the true and genuine sense of Scripture and the application of it to the manifest use of the Church"; (2) Scripture exegesis is to be gained, "not from a man's private feelings and already formed opinions, but from the actual context, from attention to and comparison of what precedes and follows with other passages of Scripture": wherein the rule of the analogia fidei is to be insisted upon, "namely, the constant and unchanging sense of Scripture expounded in open passages of Scripture and agreeing with the Apostle's Creed, the Decalogue and the Lord's Prayer, etc."; (3) The "use of Scripture" is portrayed by the Apostle, 2 Tim. 3:16 (Every scripture inspired of God is also profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for instruction [discipline?] which is in righteousness: that the man of God may be complete, furnished completely unto every good work).

Chapter III: The Foundation of Holy Scripture Page 45
Therefore sayest thou also, "I believe", namely that all that happened to me for my good and to me as well as to the most holy was promised and given by God. 

Chapter IV: The Existence and Notion of God Page 49
(5) The voice of conscience punishing the sinner, "tortures and tremblings could not strike hearts and minds after the admission of sins, save in a nature that understood and sanctioned the difference between things good and bad, that hated and avenged crimes, and exercised judgment upon minds". 

Chapter IV: The Existence and Notion of God Page 49
461: (6) The general experience that as a rule evil is already punished here on earth; "There is therefore a Mind that discerns things good and bad, a Judge of the human race who punishes the wicked and protects the good". 

Chapter IV: The Existence and Notion of God Page 50
The sense of God's goodness, i.e. of God's immense benefits, spiritual and bodily.-(14) 

Chapter IV: The Existence and Notion of God Page 53
dogmaticians frame definitions of God by insisting on the parallelism of the attributes and the tripersonality, e.g., HOTTINGER p. 37: "God is a most single Spirit, unchangeable, immense, eternal, supremely living, wise, good, righteous, free, mighty and blessed, and He is the Father, the Son and the H. Spirit".-WOLLEB p. 7: "God is a Spirit existing of Himself from eternity, one in essence trine in persons, Father, Son and H. Spirit".-HEIDAN p. 68: "God is a Spirit existing by Himself" or "a thinking independent substance" or "the ens perfectissimum".

Chapter IV: The Existence and Notion of God Page 54
What good is it to know a God with whom we have nothing to do? 

Chapter IV: The Existence and Notion of God Page 54
Nay, rather knowledge of Him ought to be sufficient to put us in fear and reverence, then by its leading and instruction to teach us to look for all good at His hand and to account it to Him."

Chapter IV: The Existence and Notion of God Page 55
(URSIN, p. 467): "God is eternal mind, sufficient unto itself for blessedness, most excellent and the cause of good in nature." 

Chapter IV: The Existence and Notion of God Page 55
Only then man learns really to grasp and inwardly to understand that God is an "essence spiritual, intelligent, eternal, different from all creatures, incomprehensible, most perfect in itself, unchangeable, of immense power, wisdom and goodness, righteous, truthful, pure, merciful, beneficient, most free, wrathful at sins. 

Chapter IV: The Existence and Notion of God Page 55
This essence is the Father everlasting, who has begotten the Son, His own image, from eternity; and the Son, the co-eternal image of the Father; and the H. Spirit proceeding from Father and Son, as the divinity has been disclosed in the sure Word transmitted through prophets and apostles and in divine testimonies; that the eternal Father with the Son and the H. Spirit created heaven and earth and all the creatures in them and is present to all the creatures to preserve and rule them by His providence and to work all good things in them all; and that in the human race created in His image He elected and gathers for Himself an everlasting Church for the Son's sake and through him, that from her this one and true Divinity might be recognised according to the Word divinely transmitted and worshipped and celebrated in eternal life and be the judge of the righteous and the unrighteous" (URSIN, p. 468).

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 58
His essence is wise, His essence is good, His essence is powerful, His essence is merciful, etc. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 58
In God being is the same as being wise, or good, or powerful, or merciful. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 58
Conclusion: God is immense and great without quantity; good, true and righteous without quality; action without movement, merciful without passion; present everywhere without position; first and most recent without time and beyond time; the Lord of all things without habit or addition.-(10) 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 58
Without essential divine attributes God cannot exist, lest He exist without Himself; for He Himself is ipsissima sapientia, bonitas, potentia;" [i.e., identical with wisdom, goodness, power].

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 59
dogmaticians pronounce accordingly, e.g., HOTTINGER, p. 44: "The attributes are distinguished neither from the essence nor from each other but only by our conceiving".-Hence, since every attribute is a manifestation of the same absolutely simple essentiality of God, it may justifiably be said (BRAUN I, ii, 2, 19) that "God's righteousness is His goodness, is His knowledge, is His will; or His mercy is His righteousness, etc. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Pages 60–61
BRAUN (I, II, 2, 20) gives the following divisions of God's attributes, (1) Into "proper, like goodness, righteousness, wisdom, etc., (2) figurative (metaphorica), as when God is called the Rock, the Lion, Fire, etc., (3) positive, like goodness, wisdom, righteousness, (4) negative, like immensity, infinity, immutability, etc., (5) absolute ones are reason and will, (6) relative, e.g., when He is called the LORD, Creator, Governor, etc. (21): The most notable distinction of God's attributes is that by which they are distinguished into communicable and incommunicable. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 61
Still analogically and equivocally certain ones may be called communicable, because certain traces of them are found among creatures, such as knowledge, will, goodness, justice."-TURRETIN (III, 6): 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 61
Thus God lives by Himself by His essence, and also understands or knows, is wise and good, etc. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 62
For (1) along with Scripture experience itself teaches us that life, reason, will, goodness, love, grace, righteousness, holiness are shared by God with the creatures in the way we have specified; (2) the distribution in question is useful and necessary alike, regarding the proof of the homoousian deity of Son and Holy Spirit as one which we can and are used to prove not by the communicable but solely by the incommunicable attributes; and (3) Scripture teaches that God made man in His image (Gen. 1:25)."

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 65
WOLLEB e.g. says (p. 9): "It is infinity by which God is known as a being infinitely true and good and devoid of all measure or limit". 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 76
In this sense by a characteristically Hebrew usage πρόγνωσις is used Ac. 2:23 (… by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God) Rom. 8:28–29 (we know that to them that love God all things work together for good, even to them that are called according to his purpose. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 79
VOETIUS (I, p. 257) generally makes good against them the two following statements: "(1) Conditions which are opposed, as it said in the science of conditionals, are either about to be or not. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 81
19.-God's will is that attribute of God (POLAN II, 19) "by which He wills good as an end and everything for good, from all eternity, of His own self and independently and by one constant act", or (MASTRICHT, II, xv, 8): "God's will is His most wise propension towards Himself as the supreme end and towards the creatures as means for His own sake". 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 82
(I, ii, 3, 13): "As God knows everything by one intuition and a single act of thinking, so also He wills and has willed by one act of will, i.e., by a single volition, Himself and all things present, past, future, necessary, contingent, absolute and conditioned, good and bad from eternity, by a most free and immutable will: so that nothing can be conceived, in whatsoever state it be, which does not therefore depend upon the will of God. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 84
Himself God wills necessarily; since He is the highest good and goal of all things, He cannot not will Himself. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 85
Similarly WALAEUS, p. 171: "A famous distinction of great importance and use, employed by the Scholastics and also accepted by ours, is the division into voluntas signị et beneplaciti"; and HOTTINGER, who (p. 80) explains that "the distinction of will into that which is of sign and that which is of good pleasure is convenient. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 87
The object of the beneplacitum is an existent eventuating in the nature of things, which is to have or not to have an actual existence, be it a good or a bad existent, consonant or not with the voluntas signi. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 87
But the object of the voluntas signi is approval of the morally good and honourable or disapproval of the unjust and wicked.

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 88
The former will is called by the Scholastics, on the authority, it is thought, of Hugh of St. Victor, voluntas signi, whether because it is signified by some sign, like a word, precept, interdict, etc.; or because it signifies God's will as the effect and adjunct of it; by others voluntas εὐαρεστίας, of good pleasure or delight; θέλημα εὐάρεστον, the gracious, acceptable will, Rom. 12:2; the latter is called by the same scholastics voluntas beneplaciti or by the Scripture term εὐδοκία Mt. 11:26 (well-pleasing) Eph. 1:5, 9 (good pleasure) Phil. 2:13, because He willed His good pleasure (beneplacitum) that this or that should exist. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 88
Both what, God enjoins, promises, etc., by the sign of a word is of His good pleasure: and not seldom He reveals by the sign of revelation His good pleasure also concerning the things which ought to exist; in fact even will, revealed in a word, is strictly not a sign (as being rather the effect of will than that will itself) but will signified through a word".-Hence 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 88
"Voluntas Dei praecipiens sive moralis is the rule of every created will, from which alone as a rule comes the difference between equity and iniquity, good and evil." "Voluntas Dei decernens et efficax is not the rule of created will, but the deepest cause of events and of the existence of all things" (HEIDEGGER, III, 73–74). 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 89
similarly distinguishes between voluntas moralis and voluntas decernens sive permittens (III, 32): "Moral will does not extend beyond the moral goodness or badness of a thing which God wills to propose to the creature; wherefore it is often not fulfilled. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 89
53, "by means of objects and effects good and bad," divides the will of God into beneplacitum and placitum.

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 92
Thus, according to them He wills, e.g., that all His injunctions are kept as exactly as possible, if of course men wish it; He also wills that one and all should be saved, just if they themselves wish to believe in Christ, to repent of their sins and to attend to good works. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 92
The "chief virtue of God embracing all the rest in its bosom is His holiness, righteousness or goodness, by which in all His words and deeds He is of Himself, by unchangeable necessity of essence, good, righteous and holy; nor does He say or do anything to deny or hide Himself and the truth of His divinity" (HEIDEGGER III, 88).

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 92
defines thus, presupposing the concept of malum as non ens or privatio entis: "By holiness we understand that which possesses realities alone, not mixed with their opposites" (DILUCID§ 453).-MASTRICHT (II, 19, 1): God's holiness is the "moral goodness by which God is at most imitable".-LEIDEN 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 92
sees in holiness absolute perfection or God's good pleasure in it (I, 139): "God embraces all that can be conceived of perfection and indeed perfections alone with nothing diverse or contrary, all imperfection being excluded, and in this sense He is called holy-(140): Theologians commonly define holiness as God's love for Himself because He loves His perfections". 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 93
30.-Since holiness like all other attributes of God is the divine nature itself and so present in God in absolute perfection, it cannot be conceived as God's agreement with the law of the good. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 93
Reformed dogmaticians as a whole are occupied with the question, whether goodness is good because God wills it, or whether God wills the good because it is good. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 94
In reply to the objection that, if there is something good and right antecedently to God's will, then God must dutifully will and do it, which contradicts the absolute nature of God, VOETIUS rightly (!) insists (373) that "God is under no moral duty ab extra; He is due no one and there is no cause outside God which could bind or determine Him. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 94
This is immutably good and righteous, the opposite of which He cannot will". 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 94
(2) By hypothesis, as and when He wills to give precepts, He necessarily gives them good and righteous, nor in general can He do or will the opposite. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 94
(3) Specifically He also gives some righteous things antecedently to His free will, those in which He necessarily ends, being of course derived from His instrinsic nature and goodness". 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 95
III, 89–90): "Whatever the nature of the creature's holiness, righteousness and goodness, its first rule and norm with respect to God is not His free will and commands but His actual, essential righteousness. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 95
Things are not good, holy and righteous in themselves, because God willed and ordered them. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 95
But with respect to God, although in those things which have free and positive goodness, as in ceremonies so instituted as also to admit of abolition, God's will is the first rule of righteousness; in those, however, which have innate goodness, the actual will of God derives a rule from no other source than from His essential holiness, righteousness and goodness or from His most Holy nature. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 95
"The love of God is the essential property or essence of God, whereby delighting Himself in it He wishes it the good which He approves." 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Pages 95–96
Herein is manifested the "goodness of God", according to which God is in and for Himself "supremely good" and towards creation "beneficent" (RIISSEN III, 41). 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 96
God manifests this righteousness of His partly as world-ruler (iustitia dominica et gubernans sive regiminis-dominical and governing righteousness or righteousness of rule) partly as lawgiver and judge of all, good and bad (iustitia iudicialis et retribuens sive iurisdictionis-judicial and retributive righteousness or righteousness of jurisdiction).-On the necessity of God's judicial activity COCCEIUS remarks (S.T. III, 10, 61): "He cannot not punish [sc. 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 97
Chapter VII).-HEIDEGGER (III, 97): "God so uses this righteousness that He never lets it crash-on the rest of His attributes, holiness, goodness, wisdom.-That 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 97
34.-The question whether the nature of righteousness depends wholly upon the will of God or whether God is tied to a law immanent in Him, is like answering the question whether goodness is good because God wills it or whether God wills goodness because it is good (independently of His will). 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 99
MASTRICHT (II, xiv, 10) says: "The Reformed are of opinion that He neither can nor wills to deceive, and that the nexus ‘could if He would' is false and impious"; and mainly on these grounds: "(1) it is against the Scriptures, for which it is ἀδύνατον ψεύσασθαι θεόν; (2) against the nature not only of prime truth but of truth's very self that He even could deceive, since without doubt it is a greater perfection in a witness that he cannot deceive, than that he can; (3) contrary to God's nature, in whom on this principle there would be ναί καί οὐ, in spite of the Apostle 2 Cor. 1:18; also (4) against the goodness of a most merciful Creator, that He could deceive His wretched creatures."

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 104
43.-The content of these attributes is the perfection and complete adequacy, the glory and majesty, and the blessedness (of God).-LEIDEN SYNOPSIS VI, 43: "In all these divine attributes consists the perfection of God, as one in whom is no defect; His excellency and surpassingness over all things, so that nothing is His match or like; His glory or majesty, both inward in His attributes whereby He is glorious in Himself, Is. 48:11 (my glory will I not give to another), and outward in light inaccessible Ex. 33:18–22 (Moses' sight of God at Sinai) 1 Tim. 6:16 (dwelling in light unapproachable); and blessedness by which He enjoys Himself and rests in Himself, in need of nothing and the complement of everything good, 1 Tim. 6:15 (the blessed and only potentate) Ac. 17:25 (not … as though he needed anything), and so singly to be upheld, blessed, honoured, worshipped, the only object of service, adorable, praiseworthy, to be called upon and in words and deeds to be glorified, Rom. 1:21 (as the unrighteous do not) Tit. 1:16 (those who profess to but do not know Him). 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 104
The perfection and sufficiency which we claim for God is regarded as not limited to a fixed genus or to any fixed use which suits any creatures and excludes privative imperfection alone, but as universal, including every good, sufficient in every category and in every man for everything up to infinite beatitude, which thereby rules out all negative imperfection".-(II, xxii, 5–8): "For glory these four elements concur: (1) an infinite eminence; (2) the brilliance of this perfection and eminence; (3) recognition of this eminence, from which it is called God's face; (4) the making famous or manifest of the eminence recognised by its brilliance, more appropriately termed glorification than glory.-(II, 

Chapter V: The Attributes of God Page 104
xxiii, 1): There remains of the derived attributes the third and last of all God's attributes, by which He rejoices in and enjoys Himself and all His perfections and imparts Himself to His own for the enjoyment of His joy, which is called blessedness as described by Ps. 16:2 (I have no good beyond thee)".

Chapter VI: The Holy Trinity Page 107
And as He knows Himself as the most perfect ens, so by His will He desires and wills Himself as the supreme and most perfect good. 

Chapter VI: The Holy Trinity Page 107
Thus in its activity God's will returns upon itself, and rests in God Himself as the infinite good.-Since 

Chapter VI: The Holy Trinity Page 107
It is called the Spirit-because the dilectio is a sort of impulse and beat of the will, by which it is borne to the good of the beloved Object as though breathed from the will.-Since then by most perfect will and love the Father so to speak aspires to the Son and the Son for his part to the Father, the Spirit is therefore rightly said to proceed from the mutual longing of both.-Thus then we have from the very essence of God, by unchangeable principles, demonstrated three modes of subsistence or persons, Father, Son and Holy Spirit; and that in such wise, that they cannot be more or fewer, unless it be denied that God is God. 

Chapter VI: The Holy Trinity Page 108
take the LEIDEN SYNOPSIS VII, 14: "Hence the mode of this mystery, inexplicable as it is by human reason, is rather to be adored in humble faith than defined by risky phrases (periculosis locutionibus)".-On the attitude of later Reformed Orthodoxy to this whole question MASTRICHT (II, xxiv, 21) expresses himself most completely: "Starting from the nature of God as knowing some Scholastics have tried to accomplish it in pretty much this fashion: reason teaches that God knows (intelligere); of this knowledge is born the idea or image; and since the thing known is something good, love arises: but since the image and also the love are not accidents in God but substance, it cannot but be that there is one substance in Knower, Known and Loved. 

Chapter VI: The Holy Trinity Page 108
Later men add other proofs, e.g., that the possession of no good is pleasant without a partner; and since in God there has always been most pleasant possession of the highest good, he says it may easily be concluded that God has never been without a partner [!]. Thomas Aquinas in his Summa, part I, qu. 32, art. 1 rages at the Scholastics, that in making this attempt they derogate from faith in more than one way. 

Chapter VI: The Holy Trinity Page 109
Nor are there lacking some of ours who endeavour, if not to prove at least to declare the Trinity from the three primary attributes of God, power, wisdom and goodness: so, the Father is as it were God mighty, the Son wise, the H. Spirit good. 

Chapter VI: The Holy Trinity Page 125
He is God the Son according to his nature and is therefore true αὐτοθεὸς like the Father and the H. Spirit.-POLAN III, 5: "He who is called the Son of God is either the Son per naturam; or by creation in the image of God, like Adam Lk. 3 last verse [38] (the Son of Adam, the Son of God); or by the grace either of personal union with the Λόγος, like Christ according to his human nature; or of adoption, like all the elect in Christ, both the good angels who are called the sons of God, and men predestined to eternal life. 

Chapter VI: The Holy Trinity Page 125
because I said, I am the Son of God?); (β) by his rising from the dead as he was born Ac. 13:32–33 (we bring you good tidings of the promise made unto the fathers, how that God hath fulfilled the same unto our children, in that He raised up Jesus: as also it is written in the second psalm, Thou art my son: this day have I begotten thee); (γ) by exaltation he was raised to God's right hand Heb. 1:4–5 (having become by so much better than the angels, as he hath inherited a more excellent name than they. 

Chapter VI: The Holy Trinity Page 127
Therefore all the things said here and there in the Scriptures about Jehovah the God and Holy One of Israel, about Jehovah going to be or having become their God, of the goël, avenger and upholder of the people, of the Saviour and the sinner's righteousness, of the Rock or Ark of salvation, of the angel of Jehovah, of His countenance, of the covenant and testament, of the Redeemer, mediator, sponsor, priest, intercessor with the Father by virtue of merit, of the Reconciler, etc., should be ἰδιοποιεῖσθαι [appropriated] to the Son for οἰκονομία [dispensation] (passim as in OT Gen. 17:8 (I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land of thy sojournings, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession and I will be their God) 48:16 (the angel which hath redeemed me from all evil, bless the lads; and let my name be named upon them, and all the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude on the face of the earth) Ex. 3:2–4 (the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire-and Moses said, I will turn aside now-and when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of a bush …) Deut. 32:35 (vengeance is mine and recompence … the day of their calamity is at hand …) Ps. 82:1 (God standeth in the congregation of God: he judgeth among the gods) Ps. 95:1 (… let us make a joyful sound to the rock of our salvation) Is. 40:5, 9 (… the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together … O thou that tellest good tidings to Zion (bis)), 41:14 (… thy redeemer is the Holy One of Israel), 45:21, 24, 25 (… who hath declared it of old? 

Chapter VI: The Holy Trinity Page 129
or whither shall I flee from thy presence); (c) omniscience: 1 Cor. 2:10 (the Spirit searcheth all things, even the deep things of God; (d) omnipotence, which is manifest from His works; (3) The divine works as: (a) the creation of all things Ps. 33:6 (by the word of the Lord were the heavens made; and all the host of heaven by the breath of His mouth) Job 26:13 (by his Spirit the heavens are beauty); (b) the preservation of all things Gen. 1:2 (the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters); (c) the mission and unction of Christ Is. 61:1 (The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me; because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek, etc.); (d) gifts of tongues and miracles 1 Cor. 12:4 (diversities of gifts); (4) divine honours: He must be believed according to the Creed; baptism must be into Him Mt. 28:19; to Him prayers are to be directed Rev. 1:4 (the benediction at the opening)."

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 135
"The eternal counsel of God is the essential inward work of God, the judgment so to speak of the divine mind and wisdom upon all matters, the doing of which He willed for a good end" (POLAN IV, 6).-COCCEIUS, in the S.T., Loc. 

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 137
We know nothing about God previously or more distinctly than that holy and good will, by which He wills to be glorified in the intelligent creation." 

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 138
The question is not whether there are such decrees as either possess or involve no condition or means in their execution (for in this sense we do not deny that various decrees may be termed conditioned, although the expression is less proper); we are dealing with the decree conditioned a priori and antecedently, on the side of the decree itself, and the question is whether there are any such decrees, as are suspended by some potential condition outwith God and of uncertain issue; or whether they are absolute, depending upon His good pleasure alone. 

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 140
At the same time, in the improper sense of the word, everything is described as the object of the divine decree, which God has resolved to do in conformity with His holiness; i.e., (1) anything possible at all which may really hold a purpose of good or of glorifying God in time, and (2) anything of the possible, which God really means to let happen, to do or to permit. 

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 141
No other higher, prior or superior cause of His works can be given (Gen. 45:8 so it was not you that sent me (Joseph) hither, but God …; 50:20 Ye meant evil against me; but God meant it for good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people alive; Ps. 115:3 our God … hath done whatsoever he pleased; Is. 14:24 The Lord of hosts hath sworn, saying, Surely as I have thought, so shall it come to pass; and as I have purposed so shall it stand; Mt. 11:25–26 … thou didst hide these things from the wise and understanding and didst reveal them unto babes … so it was well-pleasing in thy sight; Ac. 2:23 … delivered up by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God; Rom. 9:18 (he hath mercy on whom he will, and whom he will he hardeneth). 

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 142
E.g., RIISSEN [no reference]: "The question is not as to the end of life in respect of second causes; we admit that it may be contracted or lengthened by good or bad ordering: it has regard to the first cause, and to the divine decree and divine ordination. 

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Pages 142–143
Without His eternal and changeless decree nothing is done anywhere by anyone either universally or specially, not even excepting those things which are evil and accordingly detestable; although not as decreed by an ever good and righteous God but as happening through Satan and other evil instruments."

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 143
God's decree is sheerly the efficient cause of everything good, the effectually permissive cause of evil. 

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 143
we say that all things are effects of God's eternal decree, we mean both substances, and created accidents, and their results good and bad; but we exclude sin because it is not a res."-WOLLEB (p. 18–19): "III. 

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 143
By will of sign God did not will man's fall, indeed He most severely forbade it: yet He willed and decreed it by the will of His good pleasure, according as it was a means of revealing His glory".-IV. 

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 143
Thus by God's decree and will things good and bad take place; the former by efficient, the latter by permissive decree.-V. 

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 143
But He only decrees to effect the things which are done, whether they are moral or natural goods."-BEZA 

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 143
Op. III, p. 407): "Although what God ordains to be is always good, He is said to will the good, not to will the evil. 

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 144
Both His power and His goodness are so great and so incomprehensible, that at a time when He applies the devil or wicked men in achieving some work, whom He afterwards justly punishes, He Himself none the less effects His holy work well and justly.-These 

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 146
It is the general decree by which He has resolved to declare the glory of His power, wisdom and goodness in the creation and preservation of all things. 

Chapter VII: The Decrees of God Page 146
According to it the following is the fixed ordo rerum creatarum: "(1) God decreed to manifest His glory abroad in all its multifariousness and not for His own but for creation's good, so that all things might respond to His wise counsel as to their end, the praise of His Name; (2) He decreed to create the world, and in it both minds to know, love and celebrate His glory and exceeding excellency and to perceive some advantage in the rest of His works; and bodies acknowledged by minds to proclaim His glory profoundly by their order, usefulness and beauty; (3) God resolved to preserve and govern the world created and the things in it and to expose the changeable men created to temptation and fall, whereby along with their entire posterity they would rush headlong into sin and destruction; (4) God decreed of the fallen already involved in their destruction to select some in Christ, in time to call, justify and glorify them with the glory of His gracious mercy; others to abandon to their sins and to damn eternally to the praise of His righteousness" (HEIDEGGER V, 16).

Chapter VIII: Predestination Page 155
maius, 298): "(The decree) is in a different respect absolute and not absolute: absolute in respect of the impelling cause existent in man or different from the divine good pleasure; not absolute in respect of the means for obtaining salvation through the actual decree of election of those destined; among these last means the merit of Christ and faith hold the first place".

Chapter VIII: Predestination Page 156
which conceived predestination merely as election were stigmatized as deficient by the later orthodoxy, e.g., that of HYPERIUS, p. 183: "It is predestination by which God elects us in Himself, before the foundations of the world were laid-in order that He might adopt us as sons through Jesus Christ unto Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will".

Chapter VIII: Predestination Page 157
Having foreordained us unto adoption as sons … according to the good pleasure of his will), it implies that we were elect as aliens from Christ, impure and children of wrath, because only aliens from Christ were elected in Christ, i.e., to be redeemed by him Rom. 8:29 (p. 151) Jn. 15:19 (I chose you out of the world).-Nor 

Chapter VIII: Predestination Pages 157–158
But the transition is always to redemption, calling, justification Eph. 1:4, 5, 7, 8 (Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blemish before him in love: having foreordained us unto adoption as sons through Jesus Christ unto himself, according to the good pleasure of his will … in whom we have our redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence) Rom. 8:29–30 (whom he foreknew, he also foreordained to be conformed to the image of His Son, that he might be the first-born among many brethren: and whom he foreordained, them he also called: and whom he called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, them he also glorified) 9:22–23 (that he might make known the riches of his glory upon vessels of mercy, which he afore prepared unto glory) 2 Tim. 1:9 (God saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before times eternal); but to creation and the fall never. 

Chapter VIII: Predestination Page 158
So with the infinite light of His own knowledge foreseeing that it would turn out, that man created in His image would with his entire posterity abuse his liberum arbitrium God, in order that the more manifest way of an admirable righteousness and mercy might be opened up, considered it more in accord with His most almighty goodness to make well of ill, than not to let evil live, as Augustine rightly reminds us."-WENDEDLIN (Collatio, p. 249): "In God's view the object of predestination was fallen man, dead in sin".-WOLLEB 

Chapter VIII: Predestination Page 159
HEIDEGGER next compares the finis creationis and the finis praedestinationis (V, 34): "Now the glory of creation consists in the fact that God's invisible power, wisdom and goodness was laid bare not only in all His works, particularly in the invisible image conferred upon man through creation: it also shone out thus, that the liberum arbitrium left him made no advance as regards righteousness and life. 

Chapter VIII: Predestination Page 159
As then the end of every divine decree concerning man is the illumination of the divine glory, so it is (the end) both of the power, goodness and wisdom in the decree of creation, and of the grace, mercy and righteousness in the decree of predestination." 

A.-Election Page 163
Or more briefly: "Election is the predestination of certain fixed men, in whose eternal salvation is manifested the glory of the divine mercy" (MASTRICHT III, iii, 5).-Can. Syn. Dordr. 7: "Election is the immutable purpose of God, whereby before the foundations of the world were laid He elected from the whole human race, that had fallen from its primeval integrity into sin and destruction by its own fault, according to the most free good pleasure of His will, out of pure grace, a fixed number of men neither better nor worthier than others, but prostrate with the others in a common wretchedness, to salvation in Christ, whom He appointed mediator right from eternity and the head of all the elect and the foundation of salvation; and resolved to give him them to save and to call and bring them effectually into his own communion through His own word and Spirit; or He decreed to present them with true faith in Himself, to justify and sanctify them, and at last, being powerfully protected in the communion of His Son, to glorify them, for a proof of His mercy and for the praise of His glorious grace."

A.-Election Page 163
LEIDEN SYNOPSIS (XXIV, 14): "We define the election in question as God's eternal and immutable decree, by which from the entire human race that had fallen by its own fault from primaeval integrity into sin and destruction He elected a fixed multitude of individual men, neither better nor worthier than the rest, of His sole good pleasure, to salvation in Christ Jesus, and resolved to give them to His Son to redeem, and by a peculiar and effectual mode of operating to bring them to living faith in Himself and to a sure perseverance in the same living faith, and that for a proof of His gracious mercy and for the praise of His glorious grace."-Almost 

A.-Election Page 164
11.-In H. Scripture this truth is guaranteed by the passage Eph. 1:3–8: "Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ: even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blemish before him in love: having foreordained us unto adoption as sons through Jesus Christ unto himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, which he freely bestowed on us in the Beloved: in whom we have our redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence …" The causa electionis princeps is the triune God, in such a way that to the Father particularly belongs the electio in and by itself, to the Son the sponsio, to the H. Spirit the obsignatio of the election.-HEIDEGGER 

A.-Election Pages 166–167
13.-Thus in no way may the ground of election be sought in anything that is outside God: not in the will of man, not in the use of the means of grace, not in the foreseen faith of the twice-born, not in his persistence in faith, not in his diligence in sanctification, nor yet in the merit of Christ, but solely in the good pleasure of God.-POLAN (IV 9): "The efficient impulsive cause on account of which our eternal election was made is nothing outside God, and accordingly not the will of man; not a good use of the grace we may have received from God; not our foreseen faith; not men's foreknown merits; not our own prayers or those of others; not our perseverance in good, i.e. in faith and zeal for good works; not dignity of race or privilege in any other thing; not Christ's merit, nor yet a prevision of any of these things, which was and is in God; nor finally the actual final end of election; but the sole good pleasure of God founded on His gratuitous love towards us Lk. 12:32 (… it is the Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom) Rom. 9:11, 16, 18 (the children being not yet born, neither having done anything good or bad, that the purpose of God according to election might stand, not of works, but of him that calleth; 16, it is not of him that willeth nor of him that runneth, but of God that hath mercy; 18 so then he hath mercy on whom he will, and whom he will he hardeneth) Eph. 1:5, 11 (Having foreordained us unto an adoption as sons through Jesus Christ unto himself, according to the good pleasure of his will … 11: in whom also we were made a heritage, having been foreordained according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his will) Dt. 7:7–8 (The Lord did not set his love upon you, nor choose you, because ye were more in number than any people: for ye were the fewest of all peoples. 

A.-Election Page 167
Add to these testimonies the reason sought from the nature of God: Because the highest good could not behold an object other than Himself, even in doing good or conferring it upon someone: therefore it is necessary that the cause of our election and of all the benefits linked up with it should exist from eternity in God alone."-WOLLEB 

A.-Election Page 170
HEIDEGGER (V, 32): "Meanwhile we may not allow to certain Remonstrant and Lutheran (Augustani) theologians, that Christ may be called, as our mediator and saviour, by reason of his merit and redemption, the meritorious cause or foundation of eternal election, not merely to be executed, but also to be decreed, because it is not a phrase of Scripture, which makes Christ the cause and foundation of election Ac. 4:12 (in none other is there salvation) 1 Cor. 3:11 (other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ) Heb. 2:10 (… the author of our salvation), as well as of the Church Eph. 2:20 (being built upon the foundation of prophets and apostles, Christ Jesus himself being the chief corner stone); but nowhere of election; nor has the election of us any meritorious cause at all outside God; moreover in Him it has no other cause or foundation than His love of the Son and, in the Son, of us and so the sheer good pleasure of Him that elects".-LEIDEN SYNOPSIS (XXIV, 29): "Although then Christ's merit is not the cause of our election, because even Christ's very merit is in consequence of election; yet our election was not accomplished without respect to the Christ's future merit, because Christ's future merit and his whole mediation are among the objects of this election and at the same time the foundation of all those benefits appointed for us through election".-HOTTINGER 

A.-Election Page 173
(Collatio, p. 253): "As to why God has not elected all but only some, and why these rather than those, there is no other reason but God's εὐδοκία, since for God predestinating all men are objects equally dead in sins and of themselves unfit for any good and liable to eternal death".-BUCAN 

A.-Election Page 175
For the same universal election to some extent some Augustan (i.e. Lutheran) theologians also put up a fight, asserting that by His antecedent will God had decreed from eternity to save all men universally who were destroyed by sin, through Christ the Saviour who was to be apprehended by faith; but consequently He resolved to save believers and to damn unbelievers; in this will, they declare, the cause of particularity arises from the fact that some obey and believe God's kindly and universal good pleasure: others do not. 

A.-Election Page 176
The former are mainly the Word and the Sacraments, the latter faith in Christ, the witness of the H. Spirit and zeal in sanctification (in good works). 

A.-Election Page 177
To these POLAN reckons "(1) effectual calling to the communion of Christ Rom. 8:30 (whom he foreordained he also called) 9:23–24 (and that he might make known the riches of his glory upon vessels of mercy, which he afore prepared unto glory, even us, whom he also called, not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles); (2) the gift of saving faith Ac. 13:48 (… as many as were ordained to eternal life believed) 2 Th. 2:13 (God chose you from the beginning unto salvation in sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth, whereunto he called you through our gospel, to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ) Tit. 1:1 (… according to the faith of God's elect …); (3) gratuitous justification in the sight of God, Rom. 8:30 (whom he foreordained he also called); (4) glorification, i.e. regeneration or sanctification or fresh creation, by which we have been created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath prepared that we should walk in them". 

A.-Election Page 178
The two "Inward witnesses" are (1) the "witness of our own spirit, when our conscience has been made calm as the result of justification through faith in the sight of God Rom. 5:1 (being justified by faith let us have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ)", and (2) the witness of the H. Spirit, i.e. "that inward revelation in the heart of each elect human, that God the Father has predestined him whom He was adopting as a son, which revelation takes place through the infusion of inward grace, by which the H. Spirit effectually persuades the elect human, to believe surely that he is the son of God, and that by the sole goodness of God the Father and by the grace of Christ; and to be filled with trust and love to God, such that he calls upon Him from the heart, from love of Him hates his sins and is gripped by a sincere desire to do His will".-LEIDEN 

B.-Reprobation Pages 178–179
"Reprobation is the decree of God, by which out of the mere good pleasure of His will He has resolved to leave fixed men, whom He does not elect, in the mass of corruption and piling up sins on sins and, when they have been hardened by His just judgment, to visit them with eternal punishments, in order to display the glory of His righteousness" (HEIDEGGER V, 54). 

B.-Reprobation Page 179
Without impiety this cannot be thought of God, the supreme Lord of all things and of good and bad men, alike a merciful and a just distributor. 

B.-Reprobation Page 182
Here sin cannot be alleged because it is common to both, and no reason can be given save the sole good-pleasure of God, because it so pleased Him."-These points of doctrine are most completely and comprehensively lit up by HEIDEGGER (V. 59): "Above all the decree of reprobation and that of damnation are not the same thing. 

B.-Reprobation Pages 183–184
It not only speaks of reprobation either negatively Mt. 7:23 (I never knew you!) Jn. 10:26 (ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep) etc., or affirmatively Prov. 16:4 (the Lord hath made … the wicked for the day of evil) Mt. 25:41 (Depart from me, ye cursed) Rom. 9:11, 18, 22; 11 (for the children being not yet born, neither having done anything good or bad, that the purpose of God according to election might stand, not of works but of him that calleth), … 18 (supra); 22 (What if God, willing to shew his wrath, and to make his power known, endured with much long suffering vessels of wrath fitted unto destruction) Jude 4 (of old set forth unto condemnation), but also by predamnation terms some vessels of wrath unto dishonour Rom. 9:22, sons of perdition Jn. 17:12, but as to praeterition it opposes election and reprobation or the dereliction of those who are not elected and approves it by the actual result Is. 41:9 (thou art my servant I have chosen thee, and not cast thee away) Mt. 24:40–41 (two men in the field … two women at the mill, one shall be taken, one left). 

B.-Reprobation Page 184
And in fact in the negative act is presupposed sin or guilt, which, since Adam's guilt, rests on the whole human race; while in the positive act there is also in addition natural corruption and some other sins, of whatever kind, because they do not seek God, who at least in nature has not left himself without a witness; and whom they cannot ignore they do not glorify, they do not wait upon His works in order duly to acknowledge Him; and if the Gospel is revealed to any of them, they either do not receive it in good faith or when received they do not behave in a way worthy of it and they deem Christ's blood common by which he was sanctified, and harden themselves in evil; in word every sin is acquired, whether against the law of nature or against the voice of the gospel. 

B.-Reprobation Page 186
First and third come under predestination as its effect, because God has decreed both to operate the action or inclination reckoned in the genus of being and to exercise His judgment for sin in accordance with the action.-God is the author both of the action itself and of the judgment or ἀντιμισθία and of the penalty, whether He executes them through bad or through good instruments. 

B.-Reprobation Page 187
(1) He is an acceptor of persons, who regards something in man as worthy as it were of a reward, which is, nevertheless, nothing; (2) God would be an acceptor of persons, had He elected on account of faith and good works, which latter nevertheless deserve nothing; (3) Nor is God to be called the author of sin: not reprobation, but the actual will of man, must be called the cause of sin."-LEIDEN SYNOPSIS (XXIV, 58): "Nor is this will absolute as though lacking reason, or tyrannical (perish any blasphemy in the word), as some understand the word absolutely, when they attempt in that respect to create ill-feeling in us. 

B.-Reprobation Page 187
Firstly it cannot be accused of tyranny, if it exacts its right from one delinquent and criminal, although it does not exact it from other criminals in like wise; secondly, if it does so for good and holy ends. 

B.-Reprobation Page 188
Of others indeed we must have good hopes by the judgment of love 1 Cor. 13:7 (beareth, believeth, hopeth, endureth all things), nor should anyone discard hope of his own salvation, but rather strive vigorously to effect by zeal for faith and good works to make his own calling and election sure."

B.-Reprobation Page 189
By this comparison God's goodness the more shines out towards us, as Paul reminds us Rom. 11:22 (the goodness of God etc.), and hence we so much the more humble ourselves beneath God's judgments, that we venerate and adore His righteousness and wisdom although at times hidden from our eyes, as the same Apostle also anticipates us in doing Rom. 9:20 (O man, who art thou, that repliest against God?…) 11:33 (O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God! how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out)."

Chapter IX: Creation Pages 190–191
4.-"Creation" (generally: "the production of things out of nothing"; RIISSEN, VI, 3) "Is strictly the name of God's first outward work, by which directly and of Himself at the beginning of time He produces things which previously were not, purely by His almighty command, from simple non-being into being, without change, by His own free will, and that out of nothing or out of material previously made out of nothing but by nature incapable of assuming such form as the Creator imposed upon it, when the material was made out of nothing" (POLAN V, 2): or more briefly: "Creation it is, by which God produced the world and the things in it partly out of nothing, partly out of naturally inert matter, to manifest the glory of His power, wisdom and goodness." 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 191
6.-In fact God completed creation without being in any way determined by any outward co-operating cause, or by objective ideas by which He took His bearing, solely by the efficacy of His free will and good pleasure.-HEIDEGGER 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 191
7.-By His free will and good pleasure God called everything outside Himself out of nothing into existence for a definite purpose and made them the object of his good pleasure.-MASTRICHT 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 191
(III, v, 8): "The command of creation included three things: (1) the production of the thing by that most effective Esto or Fiat (Gen. 1:3, 6, 7), by which creation received existence: (2) the ordering of it: let it be for this or that end, e.g. to give light upon the earth Gen. 1:16; by which its use was assigned to each thing and the office as it were which it was to fulfil universally; (3) approval of it; God saw that it was good Gen. 1:4, whereby of His goodness He approved the excellence and perfection of the creation and blessed it to the use assigned to it."

Chapter IX: Creation Page 192
Neither was God tied down to creating things, nor if He had never created the world, or were reducing it to nothing when created, would He be on that account less good or less blessed."-VOETIUS 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 195
13.-Since there is nothing higher than the divine will, the cause of creation can only be found in that itself and in its goodness. 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 195
God created the world, not as though He needed the creature for His majesty and blessedness, but purely because in His goodness and wisdom He wanted to create it.-VOETIUS 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 195
The divine goodness is inward; the good diffuses and communicates itself."-POLAN 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 195
These are God's will, goodness, wisdom and power".-BUCAN 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 195
(V, 5): "The impelling cause of the creation of things was God's immense goodness joined to His supreme wisdom, which He willed to communicate and by communicating to manifest, because the good is communicative of itself."-HEIDEGGER 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 195
But he also (Enchirid., c. 19) alleges His goodness as the cause of His will.-Necessity or need did not move Him to create the world, because He needs nothing, Ac. 17:25 (neither is he served by men's hands, as though He needed anything, seeing he himself giveth to all life, and breath, and all things),-but His most free will, by which He willed to set up a kingdom in the world, and in it to communicate Himself to the creatures as the supreme good and to offer Himself for their enjoyment, and so in them ἐνδοξασθῆναι καί θαυμασθῆναι, "to be glorified and to be marvelled at", 2 Th. 1:10.

Chapter IX: Creation Page 195
God would let the glory, power, wisdom and goodness of His nature be revealed. 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 195
God's goodness is the causa προηγουμένη of creation". 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 195
From this it follows that the goodness of the creature consists in it being a witness and evidence of the divine glory. 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 195
"Thus in all things created there had to be at least some trace of God's perfection and goodness."-LEIDEN 

Chapter IX: Creation Pages 198–199
Although original sin comprises not only deprivation of good but also aversion to God who is the summum bonum, propension to evil, a natural impulse counter to God's Word and other similar things; although moreover it dwells in us, as the Apostle says Rom. 7:21 (I find the law, that, to me who would do good, evil is present); although there is a law in our members warring against the law of the regenerate mind (Rom. 7:23), yet, if we would speak strictly, it is not a definite res, since it has not a true esse produced by God; hence sin is not a creature. 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 199
And the order was displayed, by which God can always first prove His own power and goodness in the weakness and imperfection of the creature and then in its consummation 2 Cor. 4:6 (It is God that said, Light shall shine out of darkness, who shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ), and the structure of the works themselves may more easily be learned by man".

Chapter IX: Creation Page 200
21.-Therefore He made not only unconscious but also intelligent, personal beings, able to recognise, enjoy and praise the revelation of God's majesty and love.-COCCEIUS (S.T. XV, 41): "Therefore it is necessary that there should be a creature to understand through creation the excellence and virtues of God, to love and seek God, and to enjoy God as its good.-So if the whole creation testifies to the intelligent creature, it aims to tell it that its true and single good is God."

Chapter IX: Creation Page 200
As the creaturely expression of the bonitas Dei the world was essentially good.-AMESIUS (Med. 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 200
I, viii, 17): "Everything was created very good, because not made anyhow or in vain, but for an end which it effectively pursued." 

Chapter IX: Creation Page 200
Hence the ineradicable draw of the creature to God. (21.22): "By this goodness all things (res) created tend in their own natural manner to God, from whom they came forth". 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 201
ANGELS GOOD AND BAD

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 201
(Loci p. 551): "On the testimony of H. Scripture angels both good and bad are spirits, by which term we here understand a spiritual person".-COCCEIUS 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 204
HYPERIUS p. 274ff: The angels enjoy a threefold way of knowledge, (1) a created knowledge; (2) a knowledge ex revelatione; "for in progress of time angels learn additional things and by so doing advance, especially where God, when it has seemed good to Him, deigns to reveal to them some of His secret counsels; (3) [a knowledge] by experience. 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 204
Declare the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know that ye are gods; yea, do good or do evil, that we may be dismayed, and behold it together), or hidden corners of the human heart Jer. 17:10 (I the LORD search the heart, I try the reins, even to give to every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his doings) 1 K. 8:39 (then hear thou in heaven thy dwelling place, and forgive, and do, and render unto every man according to all his ways, whose heart thou knowest; (for thou, even thou only, knowest the hearts of all the children of men)); or the day of judgment Mk. 13:22 (But of that day or that hour knoweth no one, not even the angels in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father); whatever they do know they realise through intelligible species, whether ingrained in them by creation or revealed by God or derived from things, perceptually or discursively, so that a triple knowledge appears in them (1) a natural or increate John 8:44 (Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father it is your will to do. 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 205
Hence by the innate idea of God they know God's existence, from God's image His virtues, as well as the difference between honourable and base, good and bad; [they know] the principles, both those speculative of things naturally knowable and those practical ones of things moral and the inferences flowing from them, and other things of the kind, by a reasoning the subtlety, acumen and swiftness of which is theirs far beyond human reasoning; [they know] far more things than man knows about themselves, God and creation. 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 205
To this category belong the decrees and counsels of God, which He reveals to those sent to carry them out, etc."-RIISSEN (VII, 34–37): "Angels' knowledge is threefold: (1) natural, imbued in angels from the beginning of creation and common to good and bad alike; (2) revealed, by which they are aware of much in the revelation of God, of which previously they were ignorant as in Dan. 8 and 9 (p. 204) is revealed to the angel Gabriel the mystery of the 70 weeks, and (3) experimental, arising from things that happen in the world. 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Pages 206–207
albeit they do not directly influence man's knowledge and will,-nevertheless indirectly in their own way they can impinge upon both: upon knowledge, when as instruments and σύνεργοι of God, by arousing phantasms of the spoken word and stimulating the spirits of the brain they confront the mind with truth and goodness and urge assent to most potent attractions;-upon the will, when through the mind affected in the way mentioned they bend the will, and arouse reactions in the senses, by which the will itself is in a sense stampeded into choosing the object."

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 207
The parts of the image of God in angels are two: the first is the actual incorporeal substance of the angels, by which they suggest the incorporeal God; the second consists in the excellent attributes assigned to the angelic substance by God."-LEIDEN SYNOPSIS (XII, 7): "We assert, then, that in the beginning all the angels were created good-and in the image of God, against the Manichees and the Priscillianists".

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 207
Thus they were created good and upright, like man too.-In that grace the elect angels persisted 1 Tim. 5:21 (I charge thee in the sight … of the elect angels), with readiest will of course, but also with the most sure and effectual aid of the Creator.-Nor will those who have persisted ever fall in the future, as bound to be preserved by the power of God.-URSIN (Loci. 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Pages 207–208
HEIDEGGER (VIII, 28): "Their confirmation in original goodness and uprightness and so their actual glorification the good angels acquired neither by their own words in the strict sense, nor by desert, nor by the alien merits of Christ the Mediator".

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 208
The proximate and direct cause is the good will of the particular angels wherein they were created in the beginning by God."

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 208
"But supreme are the eternal, fixed and changeless decree and counsel of God proceeding from His own wisdom, by which He elected and predestined the former to communion and perseverance in His grace, while others in His righteous good pleasure He reprobated for His own glory 1 Tim. 5:21 (I charge thee in the sight of God, and Christ Jesus, and the elect angels …) "I bear witness", saith the Apostle, "In the sight of God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels". 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 208
12.-These latter are the good angels.-HEIDEGGER (VIII, 26) gives us the Biblical descriptions of them: angels of Jehovah Ps. 103:20 (ye angels of his; ye mighty in strength that fulfil his word, hearkening unto the voice of his word); Ps. 104:4 (who maketh his angels winds, his ministers a flaming fire), ἐκλεκτοί 1 Tim. 5:21 (I charge thee in the sight of God, and Christ Jesus, and the elect angels) ἅγιοι, Dt. 33:3., 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 210
15.-Although the endowment and appointment of all good angels is the same, it must still be assumed that there are among them certain gradations, about which Scripture meantime has not revealed anything adequate.

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 211
whether to indicate God's will, or to suggest good thoughts, or to resist the devil and his angels, or to protect and aid, avert harms, mitigate evils, strengthen and confirm the fearful, gather the dispersed, deliver from the company of evil men and from scandals, lastly to convey their souls to Abraham's bosom".

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 211
POLAN distinguishes the angels' tasks thus (V, 12): "The duty of good angels is twofold, either (1) towards God, or (2) towards men". 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 212
He does this, then, to comfort our weakness, that we may lack nothing to quicken good hope in our souls or to confirm them in freedom from care. 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 212
RIISSEN (VII, 34) gives to the question: "Whether any man has his own particular guardian angel, or even one good, another bad" the answer that "It is denied against the Papists". 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 212
Of course individual doctors represented the opposite view, e.g. BUCAN (VI, 28) who teaches: "That as a rule to each elect person a certain particular good angel is appointed by God to guard him, may be gathered from Christ's words, Mt. 18:10, where it is said ‘Their angels do continually behold the face of my Father.' 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 213
This is VOETIUS' account (I, 900): "There are some of ours who putting their co-religionists in the second place admit as a probable opinion that a good angel guards individual men, or is at least assigned to believers, among whom ZANCHIUS De oper. 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 215
(S.T., XVI, 52–53): "In the good angels is an example of the righteousness of works; and so Christ is not called their Mediator that they may become heirs of his righteousness, but still head, prince, lord, as of a family, in whom we also are reconciled and made one with them, because he is the Son."
Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 215
22.-Like the good spirits the bad ones are also real personal existences.-CALVIN (I, xiv, 19): 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 215
"As above we refuted the trifling philosophy anent the holy angels, which teaches that they are nothing but good inspirations or motions inspired by God in the minds of men; so here too those are to be rebutted, who lightly declare that devils are evil affections or upsets imported into us by our flesh."

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 216
23.-The bad spirits were originally created as angels in perfect righteousness and holiness, but have fallen away from God.-COCCEIUS (S.T. XVI, 54): "By a παρατροπὴ τῆς γνώσεως many spirits who had been created good by God did not maintain their beginning, did not persist in the truth and abandoned their domicile" Jn. 8:44 (Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father it is your will to do. 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 217
p. 554): "Although those who are now the evil spirits or angels have once actually been good-yet they turned from God by their own and their free will and accordingly by their own special fault."-POLAN 

Chapter X: Angels Good and Bad Page 217
(V, 13): "The bad angels are bad not by God's effecting, not by their nature according to which they were created good, but by their very own will".

Chapter XI: Man Page 221
For although both angel and man are blessed with reason, to acknowledge the creator and the creatures as emanating from the Creator; yet man alone is fitted to experience the goodness of all creatures in himself and to render thanks to God accordingly. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 224
"Intellectus is the faculty by which objects are discerned for approval or for disapproval", and in fact it is on the one hand "practical understanding by which we distinguish good from evil", on the other hand "theoretical understanding, by which we distinguish true from false. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 224
Will is the faculty of the soul by which we either choose or reject objects, according as the understanding judges them to be good or bad" (BUCAN VIII, 30–31). 

Chapter XI: Man Page 226
MASTRICHT (III, ix, 17): "The Reformed are of opinion that the rational soul is immortal, and that not merely by grace but also by its own nature, and that this is fixed for us not only from Scripture, but also by its nature and by natural reasons, because: (1) being purely spiritual the rational essence of the soul is not liable to any dissolution and so has no principle of death; because (2) by divine righteousness it cannot be that the plan for the good should not be in one way and the statute for the evil not in another way; because moreover (3) it seems most foreign to the wisdom of God that men and brutes should have the same outgoing, when we have already taught that their origins are most unlike; without adding (4) that all religion labours and perishes where it is believed, that nothing survives man's death except his body, so soon to be reduced to ashes."

Chapter XI: Man Page 227
With more completeness WALAEUS recounts the following arguments for the immortality of the soul (p. 226): "The reason is sought (1) from the unifoldness of the soul and its spiritual nature, which cannot be resolved into parts nor does it possess anything contrary by which it might be resolved or destroyed;-(2) from the outstandingness of the faculties of the soul: it knows all things (res), even the immortal and eternal, which befalls no other faculty natural or moral; things such as God, angels, the state of life to come and the means leading thereto; and that combined with love and inclination for these things-(3) from man's desire (appetitus), whereby he desires the highest good, eternal felicity, immortality, etc., a desire which exists in no other animate creatures and cannot be in man for nothing and originates in God; so it will also have its fulfilment;-(4) from the operations of the soul that are independent of the body, as when within itself by reflex perception it contemplates itself or considers first principles;-(5) from God's righteousness and goodness, which demands that it be well with the good, ill with the evil; this does not always happen in this life, since life here is often more splendid and jolly for wicked worldly men than for the good, 2 Cor. 5:10 (we must all appear before the judgment seat);-(6) from the pangs of conscience in many scoundrels, who have no one to fear in the world, since their crimes are hidden, or when their power is so great, that they ought to fear no one here;-(7) to this add the consent of all nations and the acknowledgement of all ancient and outstanding philosophers, the Epicureans alone excepted, whom Cicero in his De Senectute therefore calls finickin, and recent philosophers".

Chapter XI: Man Page 228
Against the assumption of an eternal existence of the soul VOETIUS adduces the following arguments (I, 796f.): "(1) Before union with a body souls have committed no sin, Rom. 5:12–13 (therefore as through one man sin entered into the world … (and became universal), 13: for until the law sin was in the world: but sin is not imputed where there is no law) compared with Rom. 9:11 (the children being not yet born, neither having done anything good or bad, that the purpose of God according to election might stand, not of works, but of him that calleth, it was said unto (Rebecca) etc.) 2 Cor. 5:10 (we must all be made manifest at the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive the things done in the body, according to what he hath done, whether it be good or bad). 

Chapter XI: Man Page 228
Not the first, as was already said in accordance with 2 Cor. 5:10 (we must all be made manifest at the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive the things done in the body, according to what he hath done, whether it be good or bad), for there is no way or course of salvation save in this world and this life. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 235
p. 93)-The image of God in man (1) looked to the essence and state of the soul, spiritual, immortal, knowing, willing; (94) it shone out (2) in the soul's endowments and its accidental perfection, that is, in the light and rectitude of the mind, in the holiness and righteousness of the will, in the harmony of the senses and affections and in their promptness after good".-On 

Chapter XI: Man Pages 235–236
In the first respect Adam was in the image of God, "(1) because the soul put in man by God is by nature spiritual, knowledgeable, incorporeal, immortal, invisible essence, which in its petty measure reproduces the nature of God; (2) the single (unica) soul existing in man, endowed with several faculties, like memory, thought, will is a symbol (as Augustine will have it) displaying the unity of the divine essence and the plurality of the persons"; in the second respect "(a) because God in the beginning had kindled in man's mind the aspect (facies) of heavenly wisdom, by which he rightly apprehended God and His will revealed to him, and so all God's works and the natures and attributes of all things; (b) next because God had adorned man in his will with perfect righteousness and holiness, by which he represented and imitated God's righteousness and holiness as in a mirror; He had also equipped him with powers suited to every good thing, in short, with a body most beautifully fitted to obey the soul, moving it with the utmost readiness and without trace of weariness; in the third respect "because by the dominion which he held over all animals and all creatures of this earth, he represented on earth God Himself, the Lord of all things."

Chapter XI: Man Pages 236–237
It remains therefore (as regards Gen. 9:6; "whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in the image of God made he man"; Ja. 3:9 "with the tongue bless we the Lord and Father; and therewith curse we men, which are made after the likeness of God"; 1 Cor. 11:7 "a man indeed ought not to have his head veiled, forasmuch as he is the image and glory of God; but the woman is the glory of man", where undoubtedly it speaks of a state not past but present), it remains, I say, so far as it consists (1) of the actual nature of man's body and soul; (2) of the natural faculties of the soul, knowledge and will; (3) of certain gifts of knowledge and will, so far as in the worst there is still detectable some use of reason and even a propension to a good even moral Rom. 1:19 (that which may be known of God is manifest in them (the ungodly); for God manifested it unto them) 2:15 (they shew the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness therewith and their thoughts one with another accusing or else excusing them) 1 Cor. 5:1 (incest); further (4) of some remnants at least of the original dominium Gen. 7:2 (Noah choosing the beasts for the Ark)."

Chapter XI: Man Page 237
WALAEUS (Loci, p. 238): "So we say that the image of God consists in those gifts and priviliges in which man surpasses all other living beings, as David Ps. 8 for this reason outstandingly proclaims here God's goodness to man. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 237
The soul He adorned with every endowment of His goodness, power, wisdom, holiness, righteousness and all the virtues, just because in man you might as with the eye see God Himself".

Chapter XI: Man Page 238
16.-These gifts were (1) "original wisdom", i.e. a perfect knowledge of man himself as well as of God and nature, above all "right reason" and a "good conscience"; (2) "original righteousness, i.e. complete pleasing of God; (3) free will (liberum arbitrium), i.e. the capacity of being able to will effectively what is good and well-pleasing to God; (4) being made capable of bodily immortality; (5) unlimited dominion over all the other creatures; and (6) perfect earthly blessedness of soul and body in Paradise.-POLAN 

Chapter XI: Man Page 238
But also in man's state of innocence conscience was good and could accuse him of nothing".

Chapter XI: Man Page 239
"Original righteousness" was that uprightness of the will, by which man perfectly obeyed the divine will according to the whole law, both inwardly and outwardly; consequently he had all the motions of his heart composed to obey reason and rightly adjusted according to their order: he loved and worshipped God and was holy; his desires were good and ordered,-the inclinations and affections of a right reason observed moderation; this absolute adjustment to its harmony was followed in the body by a kind of equable proportion towards that order as its necessary effect, so that the body as the soul's instrument obeyed right reason" (POLAN, V. 34).-BUCAN (X, 5): "Original righteousness was (1) the light in man's mind by which he knew God and His will; (2) the writing of God's law in his heart, by which he inclined to obey Him, and the uprightness of the whole man, by which the spirit was subject to God, the soul to the spirit, the body to the soul and was obedient; (3) the acceptance of the whole man, by which he was pleasing to and accepted by God, but which was separable from man himself, as the actual event proved."

Chapter XI: Man Page 240
God's property is to be essentially righteous and good, for God is actual goodness, integrity and righteousness: therefore if this original righteousness of the first man had been his substance, man would have been called righteousness itself: which could not be said without blaspheming God.-Now too the contrary of this original righteousness, original sin, is an accident, since it has entered man's nature. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 241
Or "free will is volition inasmuch as it follows a judgment of the mind in choosing and preferring good without repugnance or difficulty" (KECKERMANN p. 222). 

Chapter XI: Man Page 241
(175): "Liberum arbitrium is the faculty of willing or refusing, choosing or repudiating an object indicated by the understanding, by its own spontaneous and deliberate act".-BUCAN (XI, 2): "Strictly liberum arbitrium does not signify the faculty of doing either good or evil or even freedom of judgment, but rather the faculty of willing or not willing a thing; or the free resolve of the will, which follows the deliberation of the reason or mind and its consultation; or free will, by which the will wills or does not will, elects or rejects the things presented by the mind or understanding".-MASTRICHT 

Chapter XI: Man Page 242
The relation of liberum arbitrium to the will and to the mind is aptly set forth by CALVIN (I, xv, 8): "God equipped man's soul with a mind, with which to discern good from evil, righteous from unrighteous, and to see by the previous light of reason what must be followed or fled from: whence the philosophers have called this directing part τὸ ἡγεμονικόν. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 242
25.-It should be noted in this connection that we can only speak of a true freedom of man's will, if it is capable of being defined in a way answering to the concept and definition of man-i.e. in a way pleasing to God-in other words if it can will what is good. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 242
For in that case it would not belong to God or the heavenly ones who are unchangeably good".

Chapter XI: Man Page 242
26.-So liberum arbitrium is not essentially indifferent; for since God could create man only good, He had also to bestow on him untrammeled freedom of the will to do good, together with knowledge of it.-HEIDEGGER starts (VI, 99) with the statement that: "In the difficult dispute over liberum arbitrium we must generally beware of the rocks both of the Manichaeans who deny the natural freedom of the arbitrium and of the Pelagians who so assert the free arbitrium of the will, that even in the state of sin they leave no room for the grace of God, and of the Scholastics who-place free arbitrium in indifference to good and evil"; and from this standpoint fixes the doctrine of the liberum arbitrium as follows (VI, 100): "Things being thus generally fixed we maintain that Adam was created not indifferent to good and evil but free, i.e. with a will not barred from doing what an upright mind dictated to be done; not however thus free immutably or independently. 

Chapter XI: Man Pages 242–243
He was not created indifferent by God because, although the election of will which he received from God was concerned with good and evil (in the way God's will also deals with good and evil, not by deliberating but by willing that and turning away from this), yet the will itself was so created by God, that, as good, upright, made in God's image and likeness it should have adhered to the Creator as its principle, and being ordained to Him as its final end should have had regard to Him only, not ambiguous or swithering whether it would adhere to God or revolt from Him to another principle and set up another final end for its desire and its action. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 243
And since doing well was for the first man according to his nature, doing ill outwith and counter to his nature, we may sufficiently gather that in that state there could have been no room for indifference to good and evil. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 243
Free therefore and not indifferent he was created by God, i.e. with a mind aware of right and good, and with a will not hindered beforehand from choosing and doing what the mind foresaw to be upright and good. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 243
For will without freedom is not will, but an impulse of other provenance, without true love of God as its principle and good, and so without the obedience and servitude appointed for God the One and Sole; it is not a good, upright will and so neither is it a work of God. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 243
For says COCCEIUS on the Heidelberg Catechism qu. 7: "True freedom is not to be hindered by any ignorance or difficulty from seeking and enjoying one's good, and to cling to it firmly and steadfastly; and such is Christian freedom. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 243
27.-But from the very beginning in Adam, liberum arbitrium is and was dependent upon God, since it was purely in dependence on God's will, counsel and providence that Adam had freedom of will to do good and was accordingly so free from any compulsion, that he was able by free judgment and self-determination, unhindered by any dominion of sin or earthly misery, to decide for what was well-pleasing to God.

Chapter XI: Man Page 244
"Freedomis (p. 634) the "faculty," "the right," or generally the "ordaining" of a person or of a thing, whether done by someone's will or by nature, to act, of its own (judgment) or motion in accordance with the order congruent with its nature, and to enjoy the good things suited to it, without prohibition or hindrance, and not to sustain defects or burdens not proper to its nature". 

Chapter XI: Man Page 244
On the other hand God's freedom is distinguished from the creature's freedom in that (1) as concerns intellectus God from eternity is aware of everything most perfectly and He cannot err, whereas creatures "do not know of themselves either everything or the same things at any time, but are aware of God and His will and works as much and at the time, as and when God wills to reveal it to them"; (2) as regards the voluntas God's will is determined only by Himself, on the other hand the will of angels and men is the cause of creaturely acts, in so far as it is none the less directly or indirectly determined by God; 637: (3) as God knows everything unchangeably, He "has also decreed everything which happens from eternity and wills them immutably so far as they are good, and permits them so far as they are sins".

Chapter XI: Man Page 245
(1) because such ἰσορροπία or equal propension to good and evil is at variance with the nature of will, which necessarily follows the dictates of the mind; (2) at variance with the state of creation, in which the will was created very good; it would not be very good, if it had a propension to vice and virtue alike".

Chapter XI: Man Page 245
Since thereby, in virtue of his liberum arbitrium he was quite free from all compulsion, yet in the use of it-because in everything!-was utterly dependent upon God; in order to be able by means of liberum arbitrium really to do the good, he required God's gracious help, without which man can do nothing good. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 245
And Adam really rejoiced in this gracious help, since in regard to the fulfilment of His holy will God bestowed upon him the "possibility of not sinning if he wanted not to", but of course not "the willing of what he could", by which latter He would have been giving him the gift of unchangeable perseverance in good and making any lapse impossible.

Chapter XI: Man Page 245
"The nature of man's arbitrium is that it is free, not in respect of the good or bad object, as though it might be equally strong both ways, as though it could equally choose and do good and bad, as though it could bend either way of itself, with the same facility and power.-But it is free as regards the efficient cause, because it accepts or rejects whatever it accepts or rejects μή ἀναγκαστῶς ἀλλʼ ἑκουσίως, i.e. without any compulsion, (1 P. 5:2.… 

Chapter XI: Man Page 246
None the less Adam had a free and good arbitrium; but changeable. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 246
Therefore he could incline as much to evil as to good: he could equally sin and not sin."
Chapter XI: Man Page 246
At the same time it should be noted that the aid of grace here spoken of must not be confused with the gift of grace to persevere in the good, which would have made a falling away on Adam's part impossible. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 246
The help of grace meant is that which man requires for good as a being dependent on God. 

Chapter XI: Man Page 248
liberum arbitrium of the protoplasts was the "mutability linked in man with the faculty of reason and will, endowed with wisdom and uprightness, by God's grace, to choose the true good and to adhere to it and to avoid evil".-BUCAN (XI, 4): "Before the fall Adam has assigned him a liberum arbitrium flexible alike for good and for evil, which distinction should by all means be noted."

Chapter XII: Providence Page 253
4.-"God's providence (πρόνοια) is His outward work, by which by the same His word He preserves all things created by His word, rules their movements, acts and passions, so wisely directs them all to their ends that He promotes all good things effectually and mercifully, the bad either severely restrains or holily permits, wisely orders, righteously punishes; in a word, controls everything for the glory of His own name and the salvation of believers" (HEIDEGGER VII, 3). 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 255
That thou givest unto them they gather; thou openest thine hand, they are satisfied with good. 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 255
These proofs are derivable from 1) "God's nature": since God is absolute truth, wisdom, and power and the absolute good, it follows that God knows and can do everything and also wills it in His goodness; i.e. that He cares for everything: (2) "the condition of created things"; since all things are made of nothing, they cannot of themselves have the power of continuance and operation: (3) "the order and harmony of the creatures", which cannot be explained without assuming an absolutely intelligent government of the world: (4) "prophecy"; God has aroused as many witnesses to His foresight as He has sent prophets who foretold the future: (5) "the feeling of conscience"; the voice of conscience would have no meaning, were there not a divine providence which punishes evil and rewards good: (6) "the agreement of the saner nations and philosophers", which acknowledges the presence of a divine providence.

Chapter XII: Providence Page 256
To God's nature it belongs that He is, that He is the first cause of everything, is the highest truth and wisdom, the highest power, the highest good. 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 256
These separate things establish the providence of God.-It is of the nature of the highest Truth to have all things within His view; of the nature of the highest Power to be quite able for all He has in view; of the nature of the highest Good to will also of His goodness the things He has had in view and is able for, and so to care for them all.-It is the condition of created things, that as they are partakers of nothingness, they have no power of subsistence or activity of themselves, and if the Hand by which they are sustained in being and activity be withdrawn they cannot subsist to do anything even for a moment.-Wherefore, how could this marvellous order and harmony in created things, alike in its incredible sympathies of conjunction and conspiracy and its inexplicable antipathies of distraction and discord-how could it be thought of without a godhead and higher ruler? 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 256
Naught is emptier than the consolation of its integrity or the terrors of its hurt, if human affairs do not interest God so that He cherishes the good, plagues the wicked, and fails to distinguish between godliness and ungodliness.-In 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 261
Only we must at the same time always be clear that God Himself works personally in second causes and that therefore the Christian has to put his trust not in them but solely in the living God.-HEIDEGGER (VII, 26): "God uses second causes of this kind, not because He is lacking in or devoid of strength or afraid of fatigue or fond of leisure and relaxation, but partly in order to shew forth His power over His creatures and His royal dignity, based on the satellite position of His creatures or hosts, as well as His goodness in imparting to them power of action in a sort of co-operation with them, partly to shew man an example, not, in reliance on divine providence or even his own strength, to neglect the means and to dare tempt God".

Chapter XII: Providence Page 263
In order then to let individual creatures attain to the purpose of their existence, God governs unconscious creatures by a legal order implanted in them, or rather by a certain constancy in the life of nature, which calls forth the eternal, unchangeable presence of God in nature; the intelligent creatures on the other hand (1) by the setting up of the moral law and (2) by its immediate effect on men, for what the law demands He either does or does not fulfil among men, and thereby (κατ εὐδοκίαν) does good among them and lets evil happen permissively (κατὰ συγχώρησιν) in order to lead even this to its goal.-HEIDEGGER (VII, 25): "One mode of government holds in natural things, another in things of the will. 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 263
Nay there is yet another mode of His government, the modus κατʼ εὐδοκίαν, secundum beneplacitum Dei, which is that of the things good in themselves which God wills, effects and leads effectively to their goals, to which is also to be referred the mode κατʼ οἰκονομίαν or individual administration, which obtains in support of the sinners' nature and in the performance of miracles, another κατὰ συγχώρησιν, secundum permissionem, which is of things but such as God neither wills nor approves but allows, when allowed ordains to their end and upholds."

Chapter XII: Providence Page 264
But He frequently operated without means, beyond and counter to them, to show that all things are by Him or His proximate and direct goodness; nor does He lack or fail to use appropriately, as though lacking anything, any cause or instrument outwith Himself, by which He is made fit for the work; lest of course there should seem to be anything which has a glory in common with Himself."

Chapter XII: Providence Pages 265–266
Divine providence thus covers the whole of the world and every living element and member of the world, appear it to be ever so small, consciousless and intelligent creatures, angels and men, elect and non-elect, their good and bad actions, the contingent and the necessary. 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 267
But it is also a right tradition among the orthodox, that contingent things are also necessary in respect of the first cause, since both as a whole and in detail they depend on the nod and will of God, even though the will of God concurs in one case in good, in another in evil human actions".-So the other dogmaticians, e.g. ZANCHIUS p. 30: saying "that all things happen necessarily in respect of God, but many contingently in respect of us". 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 269
On the other hand for the glory of God man must admit, what is plain before his nose, that "the same act and the same work, since it comes from a second cause and is said so to come and bears that name, nevertheless also depends upon the first cause; and not just remotely so far as the essence and efficacy of a second cause is derived from the first cause, but proximately and directly, in order that every motion of the creature may depend upon the first cause in particular Is. 26:14 (they are dead, they shall not live; they are deceased, they shall not rise: therefore hast thou visited and destroyed them, and made all their memory to perish) Rom. 8:28 (we know that all things work together for good, even to them that are called according to his purpose) 1 Cor. 12:6 (there are diversities of workings, but the same God, who worketh all things in all) Jer. 1:5 (before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee, and before thou camest out of the womb I sanctified thee; I have appointed thee a prophet unto the nations). 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 270
For Pelagians recent and ancient feel that God, or the first and universal cause of all things, so concurs with the free actions of second causes, that their concurrence is determined to a fixed sort of action good or bad by second causes or man's free will, plainly in such wise that subject to the general and indifferent influx towards the production of all things generable it so concurs, that this influx is determined to a fixed species by the generating particulars. 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 271
(VII, 63): "Thus second causes are actuated by God according to the nature outstanding in each, and that in part physically by the movement of the nature suited to each, so far as God also rules natural causes without any anxiety on their part; and the free ones He so controls that He moves the mind to know, the will to embrace or reject an object, as He thinks good; partly ethically or morally, not just by moral suasion but by the movement of intelligent creatures according to their qualities, and those opposite, good or bad".-WALAEUS p. 310: "The final question requiring treatment here is: whether the concurrence of divine providence with the will or liberum arbitrium of man is physical or moral.-311: 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 274
27.-Divine providence governs the bad as well as the good actions of men, the latter by an actio efficax, the former by a permissio efficax.-WOLLEB 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 274
p. 30: "By God's providence things good and bad are ruled. 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 274
Good things are ruled by effectual action, to which belong the praecurrence, concurrence and succurrence of divine power. 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 274
"God's actio-is only one of the good things which God effects right from the first creation of all things, either by Himself or by others, in which also the punishment of evil is counted, because it is of the nature of moral good.-Divine permission is the act of the divine will by which God, in whose power it is to inhibit the actions of others, if He willed, does not inhibit them, but according to His eternal and righteous decree allows them to be done by the rational creature".

Chapter XII: Providence Page 274
God does not ordain evil as He does good, i.e. as something that pleases Him, but as the sort of thing He hates, nevertheless knowingly and willingly destines, lets be in the world and uses wondrously for good".-RIISSEN 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 276
This it does either inwardly-by enlightening the mind-or by restraining and bridling wicked desires: or outwardly by repressing Satan's and the world's frenzies, by removing occasions of evil, etc.-19: As to the end of sin divine providence is revealed in a wise ordering and directing, by converting evil into good and leading it to a good end outwith the nature of sin and the will of the sinner".

Chapter XII: Providence Page 276
BUCAN (XIX, 11): "God does not infuse malice into the wills of evil men, as He infuses goodness into the hearts of the godly.-In 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 276
one and the same work of the godly what is a good and just action proper to God is to be distinguished from the defect and vice of the ungodly. 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 276
(Systema, I, VI, 10) distinguishes in concrete sins (1) the natural underlying action; (2) the vitium or the ἀνομία, "sin as such"; (3) the possible and the actual ordering of the underlying action to a good end. 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 277
MASTRICHT (III, X, 18): "We may fairly nicely come to an agreement, if we distinguish in sin its material part, the habitus or action underlying the badness, with which as being physically good God cannot fail to concur as efficient cause without loss of His independence, Ac. 17:28 (In Him we live and move and are … for we are also His offspring), Rom. 11:36 (of him and through him and to him are all things); and its formal part or ἀνομία, 1 Jn. 3:4 (sin is ἀνομία), by which the act or habitus is sin. 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 277
This apparently the Saviour had in view: on the last day he will convict the sinner not so much of actions as of defects of action, Mt. 25:42–43 (I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat; I was thirsty and ye gave me no drink; I was a stranger and ye took me not in; naked and ye clothed me not; sick and in prison, and ye visited me not).-MARCK (X, 21): "It must be said that here God's providence is clear (1) in the production of the actual act which is bad, since as an action it must be called metaphysically good. 

Chapter XII: Providence Pages 277–278
Hence He wills sin not as sin but as a punishment or act of justice, because all punishment of sin is just and thereby good."

Chapter XII: Providence Page 278
behold, their ear is uncircumcised and they cannot hearken; behold the word of the Lord is become unto them a reproach-O daughter of my people, gird thee with sackcloth and wallow thyself in ashes; make thee mourning as for an only son, most bitter lamentation; for the spoiler shall come suddenly upon us), Ac. 7:51 (Ye stiffnecked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost; as your fathers did, so do ye), or by not conferring spiritual light upon the mind and softness and ductility on the heart Mt. 13:14–15 citing Is. 6:9–10 (hearing ye shall hear and in no wise understand … lest haply (this people) should perceive etc.… and should turn again and I should heal them); but over and above that (1) on account of previous crimes He removes or decreases in a just and holy manner what remains to the sinner of wisdom and moral goodness, and also increases and aggravates original blindness and hardness. 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 279
(3) He offers chances to convert, both outwardly by frequent exhortations, promises, threats, examples which they abuse, Ex. 5:1 (Pharaoh besought to let the people go) Is. 6:9 (hear, but understand not); whence the gospel becomes a savour unto death 2 Cor. 2:16; and inwardly by instilling honest thoughts, remorses of conscience, by which they are withdrawn from wickedness and stimulated to good, which they refuse and quench, 1 Th. 5:19 (quench not the spirit) Jude 10 (these rail at whatsoever things they know not: and what they understand naturally, like the creatures without reason, in these things are they destroyed), 2 P. 2:12 (these as creatures without reason, born natural animals to be taken and destroyed, railing in matters whereof they are ignorant, shall in their destroying surely be destroyed). 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 279
(4) He adds outward benefits, a wealth of kindness, tolerance and restraint of wrath, which in their hardness and unrepentant heart they reject, Rom. 2:4–5 (or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? 

Chapter XII: Providence Pages 279–280
(Loci p. 575): "It is by no means because of the goodness or badness of the instruments by which God executes the decrees of His will, that that will is more or less good; whatever the nature of the instrument God's work through it is always most excellent, righteous and holy. 

Chapter XII: Providence Page 280
The goodness or badness of the divine works depends not on the instrument's but on God's own goodness, wisdom, righteousness and uprightness.-It is absolutely necessary to admit that God does execute His righteous and holy works and judgments by bad and sinning instruments; unless anyone cares to deny that the tests and punishments of the godly caused by wicked men, are both righteous and proceed from the divine will, power and effectiveness, then, likewise, that the virtues and deeds of the godly are God's salutary gifts and benefits to the human race and to the Church, i.e. that God is the effective and righteous judge of the world and the preserver and defender of His servants and the author and producer of all good things."

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 281
Further on he says (17): "We call that a covenant, or less fully a law, to which has been annexed a promise exciting one to expect good in the form of communion and friendship; or more fully, the consummation of a pact of friendship; or a right proceeding to communion and friendship in terms of a pact.-(18): 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 282
4.-"God's covenant is the pact or convention of God with man, by which in view of the eminent right He has and of His singular goodness God makes with man on fixed conditions a pact of eternal life in heaven and seals it with sure signs and pledges, as it were" (HEIDEGGER IX, 8). 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 282
9: "This then is that eminent right, this is His singular goodness, that He alone as the Lord can make a covenant with man, and He alone as good wills to do so".

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 283
(De foedere gratiae, II, 10) "The legal covenant is the pact of works entered into freely with the human race, created from the beginning in God's image, holy, righteous and good in the protoplasts; and that as the declaration of His goodness and omnipotence; so that, as long as man persisted in obedience to the Creator, he should by this natural holiness, righteousness and goodness possess a blessed state of life. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 283
On the other hand if he transgressed God's commandment he should surely die, i.e., if he should with his entire posterity fall from that primaeval state of felicity, innocence and holiness, he would incur the penalty of present and eternal death for having violated the highest good. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 284
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenlies in Christ-having foreordained us unto adoption as sons through Jesus Christ unto Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will) 2 Cor. 3:5, 4:6 (not that we are sufficient of ourselves; our sufficiency is of God-(seeing) it is God that said, Light shall shine out of darkness, who hath shined in our hearts to give the illumination of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ)."

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 284
Also by reason of the good to be looked for by the obedient it is rightly called natural; no one can εὐαρεστῆσαι God, that is, will to please Him, worship Him, seek Him, approach Him, walk with Him (for these phrases are used by St. Paul as equivalents), save one who believes that God is who both ought to be sought and may become the rewarder of them that seek Him, and does become the rewarder of them that seek Him Heb. 11:6".

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 285
mundi p. 224): "Between Himself and men God set up in the beginning a covenant of natural religion, when He allowed them when placed in the garden of Eden to feed freely on all its trees; while He passed a law specifically on avoiding the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, under threat of death if they should eat of its fruit; whereby also was suggested the promise of a blessed life in perpetuity, if they persisted in obedience, by the addition of the sacrament of the tree of life".-Similarly 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 285
Man's conscience keeps asserting that to God the Creator and Lord of man obedience on his part as a creature is bound to be enjoined and He must be loved singly as most excellent and the Author of all good.-In such obedience and love moreover consists the duty which God requires of man. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 285
too man is naturally not ignorant of the promise of God in promising good to the obedient. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 286
Moreover conscience is that light of the mind by which man distinguishes between what is right and what is wrong, and knows the ways of doing and of fleeing right and wrong, and likewise discerns true from false and grasps the truth of connection and so judges of good and bad reasoning, of wisdom and folly. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 286
Conscience attests to man that for him as a personal being in God's image God and communion with God is the supreme essential good which God Himself has granted him, which he must strive for according to God's will and appropriate to himself by obedience to Him. Therefore by faithful fulfilment of God's law man sustains the certainty that fills his heart with the holiest peace, the certainty that God loves him and that in virtue of his obedience he possesses the righteousness that holds good with God.

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 286
But if it is wrong, God "Is not man's good and cannot make man happy in Himself." 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 286
So it would have to be the case instead that "man's good" and its "end" "are things created by God; for man's good is man's end". 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Pages 286–287
Thus it follows (XII, 22) "that he who does what conscience dictates has ἐξουσία and power to call God his God and to glory in Him as his good".-Similarly 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 287
COCCEIUS shows in Scripture (De foedere I, 8) that a covenant of God with man is really ordained: (1) from the natural moral consciousness of man, from "the conscience or naturally inborn faculty of the soul to discern what things are θεοπρεπῆ and what things are unworthy of God, laudable or objectionable, licit or illicit; and from that opinion which approves of the law of God and urges us to do the things that are right and laudable and to avoid the contrary, which attests things done righteously, condemning those done otherwise" Rom. 2:15 (they shew the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness therewith, and their thoughts one with another accusing or else excusing them [difficult: see Moffat]); (2) from "man's will which seeks for the true good in which he can acquiesce (which is nothing but God) and longs for immortal life and flees death: which desire is not in him save of the Creator Himself"; (3) and from the "daily and continual benefits by which man is urged to seek his Creator and Benefactor and to love, glorify and thank Him; so that these things seem to proclaim aloud, Seek ye God, Ac. 17:27 (they should seek God if haply they might feel after him and find him, though he is not far from each one of us) 14:17 (he left not himself without witness, in that he did good and gave you from heaven rains and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts with food and gladness) Rom. 1:21 ([the sin is that] knowing God they glorified him not as good, neither gave thanks; but became vain in their reasonings, and their senseless heart was darkened)".

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 287
And this is the righteousness of the law, the right, to wit, of looking and asking for the greatest good, which consists in communion with God.-(35) Moreover in the consummation of it the Apostle says that we shall know even as also we are known, 1 Cor. 13:12. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 289
Love to God is not only "to rejoice in God the Creator and Benefactor, to find work worthy of God its actual exemplar, and to wish to be and to study to be to His glory as the end of all things and to affect and seek His good itself, to fear and justify His judgment". 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 290
(4) We have previously in the exegetical section shewn that all the essentials of the covenant of works are contained in the first publication of it Gen. 2:17 (of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it; for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die). 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 292
WITSIUS (I, III, 2) thus defines: "The law of nature is the norm of good and evil inscribed by God on man's conscience right from creation and so binding man by divine authority. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 292
18.-At the same time Adam received a positive command of God that he should rule over all creatures, but of the fruit of one tree he was not to eat, of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.-COCCEIUS (Summ. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Pages 292–293
de foed II, 46): "The tree was called the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, "(1) Because it was πειραστικὴ or δοκιμαστικὴ of man whether he was to be good or evil; for man's goodness consisted in preservation of the likeness of God; (2) Because by this test, if he obeyed, he would arrive at a knowledge and sense of his own good, to which he was called and by a natural desire drawn, namely eternal life and perfected bliss as though righteous. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 293
mundi 228): "The tree of the knowledge of good and evil derives its appellation from the result, because of course it would turn out, that if man snatched to himself its fruit contrary to God's veto he would know by his actual trial how much good he would have lost and into how much evil he would have plunged himself."-MARCK 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 293
notes in this connection that "The tree was good, but obedience was better".

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 293
It is usually called probative and was given to Adam, because God wished thereby to prove man (1) whether he loved God perfectly and more than all the creatures; (2) whether he abstained from earthly delights, in order to delight in God alone; (3) whether he would subject his own dominion to that of God; (4) whether he would stay good or turn bad; (5) it was also given, that by sinning Adam might himself recognise the evil into which he hurled himself and the good from which he fell away; whence the tree was called that of the knowledge of good and evil.-COCCEIUS (Summ. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 293
XXVI, 2) "It pleased God also to exercise and test him by an injunction, namely not to eat of a certain tree, which was called the tree of the knowledge of good and evil." 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Pages 293–294
XXVI, 4): The prohibition in paradise had a twofold purpose: "(1) It taught that men's good was not to be placed in things delightful to the senses; (2) That God is the Lord of man and of all his acts and movements; (3) That the dominion granted to man over the things of God is a stewardship, for which he must answer to God, and therefore a use of all things to be referred with thanksgiving to the glorifying and sanctifying of God."-Similarly speaks OLEVIAN (De subst. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 294
In forbidding a tree suitable for eating, desirable and pleasant to look at Gen. 3:6., God has openly taught, that the highest good lies not in the things which delight the senses in this life, but in something more excellent, by which man's longing for eternal life is satisfied; that He is the supreme Lord of all things, particularly of man's acts; that the dominion given to man in creation was not a δεσποτεία but a pure οἰκονομία and stewardship; that the use of all things must be referred solely to the glory and hallowing of God; that life is not secured save as the reward of obedience; that it is bad to seek or attain to anything not in God or Godward; that the sole rule for seeking or shunning all things outside God is the will of God, as our Lord and Preserver; that man's obedience consists not in the soul's actions whether proper or only elicited, but in the right motion also and the commanded actions of all the members; that all transgression of God's will deserves death; that life is preferable to pleasure and that the preservation of God's image needs care; that contempt of it involves inevitable loss and attendant punishment; that although created upright by God man had not achieved the apex of his felicity and that it remained for him to prove his obedience by works also and at last to enjoy the true blessedness in heaven. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 294
zum Gnadenbund p. 25): "The law of the covenant of works was (1) generally, the law of love to God and neighbour; (2) particularly, the test law, not to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil".

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 295
Therefore we do not assent to any view of those who deny that any reward of heavenly obedience was propounded to Adam, if he should obey God, and do not recognise any other promise of the covenant of works than that of enjoying perpetual life overflowing with every kind of good things-and that in an earthly paradise".-HEIDEGGER 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 295
But neither is this life simply survival or the persisting and interminable existence of both, both because in the actual creation man received a body and an immortal soul, as we asserted at length in the proper place, and so was not bound to merit or acquire such immortality by his works, and because such a persevering existence may also be death, as is proved by the immortality of bad angels and of men condemned to hell.-In short neither was the life promised to him that worketh a perpetual life rich in every sort of good things which might consist with both man's soul and body as constituted in the state of intact nature, and these to be enjoyed in an earthly paradise, as Cl. AMYRALDUS assumes; but rather life in heaven after the course of obedience has been ended, to be enjoyed in mind and in body, through beatific communion with God, the supreme good."

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 295
II, 571): "The act by which a first party demands something from a second is called stipulatio; the act by which it assigns good to it, promissio; while the act by which the second party takes upon itself to supply what the first had demanded is called adstipulatio and where it asks for the promise, restipulatio. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 295
Had he persisted therein vigorously and non-stop, he might in the end have asked a good promise of God and so restipulatio would have ensued."

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 296
22.-God gave man this promise not arbitrarily but in accordance with His holiness and goodness, because of which God returns the love of the creature who loves Him with loyal obedience and blesses him with His full fellowship.-HEIDEGGER (IX, 57): "The further question now arises as to the source from which flows the promise mentioned of eternal and heavenly life for man, if he fulfils the law. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 296
Is it of the sheer εὐδοκία and judgment (arbitrium) of the divine will, or of θεοπρέπεια of the virtues proper to God's nature, such as principally His goodness and holiness? 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 296
Love is an affect of conjunction; as proceeding from Himself, God cannot fail to approve it as good or to desert it as bad".

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 297
Others on the contrary, deviating from the usual, describe the tree of life and the tree of knowledge as the two sacraments of the covenant of nature, e.g. MASTRICHT (III, XII, 20): "The covenant of nature-God confirmed by a twofold sacrament, one of which, the tree of life, sealed the reward of obedience, life most blessed in every way Gen. 2:9–21: the second sacrament of the covenant of nature sealed to the transgressor the penalty of disobedience, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil Gen. 2:16–17". 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 297
Others speak of three or four sacraments, e.g. WITSIUS (I, VI, 2): "The symbols under the covenant of works were, if I mistake not, four in all, which I detail in this order (1) paradise, (2) the tree of life, (3) the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, (4) the Sabbath". 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Pages 297–298
Against the designation of the tree of knowledge as a sacrament BRAUN however insists (I, III, 2, 20) that "It was not a sacrament (1) because the nature of sacraments consist in the natural use of the sign to denote a spiritual good: now the natural use of fruits is eating; but the use of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, i.e. eating, was not conceded but prohibited; (2) sacraments signify spiritual benefits: but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil threatened and brought death; hence (3) man could not use a forbidden tree but only abuse it".

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Pages 298–299
with this death is very closely connected his separation from God, who as the highest good blesses and cheers man; this is the death of everlasting torture, by which the soul of the unexpiated sinner after this life and his body when raised from the dead are not admitted to the contemplation of God as their supreme good, but are spurned from God's face and transferred to the place of tortures, in which their worm dieth not and their fire is not extinguished Dan. 12:2, 13 (many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life and some to shame and everlasting contempt-go thou thy way, till the end be: for thou shalt rest and shalt stand in thy lot at the end of the days) Mt. 10:28 (be not afraid of them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul; but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in Gehenna) Mk. 9:48–49 (their worm dieth not and their fire is not quenched. 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 299
Father Abraham … send Lazarus … I am in anguish in this flame) 2 Cor. 5:10 (we must all be made manifest before the judgment seat of Christ; that each one may receive the things done in the body according to what he hath done, whether it be good or bad) Rev. 20:10 (And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where are also the beast and the false prophet; and they shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever).-Thirdly the punishment of sin is the separation of soul from body, both as regards the uprightness of the body's members, their harmony and health as well as its conveniences for food and sustenance, its facility, and the rest of the earthly blessings; lastly, as regards the actual body by the dissolution of the union.-The 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 299
This in fact is God's perfection, that He does good even to the evil Lk. 6:35 (the Most High is kind to the unthankful and evil); this is the beneficence and the riches of His grace that He remits sins condoning the penalty of death".-COCCEIUS 

Chapter XIII: The Covenant of Works and the Righteousness of the Law Page 299
Since then this natural result of death ensuing upon sin was founded upon the decentia Dei (what becomes God), in order to manifest God's "holiness", it is clear, that hereby the revelation of God's perfection, which consists in His longanimitas (longsuffering) and misericordia (mercy), was not excluded Mt. 5:48 (Ye therefore shall be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect) Ps. 25:8 (Good and upright is the LORD; therefore he shall instruct sinners in the way), "since the two things are natural to God, to be able both to prove His holiness and to exercise mercy". 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 301
1.-To destroy the covenant which God had concluded with the man He had made in His likeness, the devil by means of the serpent misled man into disobeying God by availing himself of man's selection for a position of higher perfection, not yet bestowed upon him, to support the lie that by transgressing God's command, according to which he must not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil planted in paradise, man would attain to the possession of godlike independence and knowledge, especially the possession of the attributes of divine majesty (OLEVIAN, De subst. 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 301
Why, of convicting God of jealousy and lying, and of planting themselves against His will upon His throne!"-WITSIUS (I, VIII, 7): "(The devil) adds a promise of greater good: ‘Your eyes shall be opened and ye shall be as God, knowing good and evil'. 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 301
He presupposes, what was true and holy, that man's desire tends to some more perfect good. 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 302
Most of ours assert that it was infidelity, by which they abrogated faith in this divine threat, ‘In the day in which thou eatest of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt surely die'.-(13): 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 302
Meanwhile we may say that by thoughtlessness man had ceased to consider God's interdict and his own truthfulness and goodness. 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Pages 302–303
The forbidding of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil was a test of obedience, that by passing the test Adam might prove his willing submission to God's command".-Similarly 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 303
4.-"Adam's transgression is his sin in which, upset by Eve who was seduced by the serpent, he ate along with her of the forbidden fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil and so both broke God's universal law and the covenant made with him by God, rendering both himself (since he was a man) and the entire human race (since the first man was also the head of the human species) guilty of the death divinely threatened against the transgressor" (HEIDEGGER IX, 11). 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 303
The first table of it he violated by his want of belief and his profanation of the divine numen, the second by his ingratitude to his heavenly Father, by his murder of himself and his descendants, by his unrestraint, theft and receiving of Another's goods, by assent to false evidence and by a wicked greed for higher knowledge and status".-EILSHEMIUS 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 304
21: "Since then this counsel and purpose which has been manifested in Christ in the last times by the preaching of the Gospel and the operation of the H. Spirit was not born in God until after man's lapse, but before man had sinned, indeed before he had been created, before the constitution of the world, it had been hidden in Him from eternity: it is I think pretty clear that God refused to establish man's felicity and salvation upon his first state and constitution such as it was, but established it on his (man's) restoration predestined in Christ the Son, and He so arranged, that he should be redeemed and preserved neither by his knowledge of Himself (whence He even forbade him to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil) nor by the worthiness and merits of his own righteousness, but by the sole grace and mercy of his free election, when otherwise ready to perish, by the intervention of His Son. 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 305
Thereupon WITSIUS (24) composes the proposition: "Man's free judgment when excited to actions according to his physical being cannot give them moral and spiritual goodness save by the influx of divine Providence concurring in such goodness.-For 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 305
since moral goodness is a higher, more perfect degree of entity than physical entity alone and man depends upon God for the physical entity of his actions, he is necessarily much more dependent upon God in producing the moral goodness in his actions; so that the glory of it should be refunded to God as the first cause". 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 305
The two propositions now lead to the conclusion (25): "If in acting all creatures depend upon God; if He not only concurs with them when they act, but also urges them to action; if this urge is so powerful, that given it the effect cannot fail to follow; if God inflows with the same efficacy into vicious acts so far as they are acts; if the creature cannot without God give to his actions the moral goodness they require: it follows infallibly that if God moves Adam to know, will, emit, he cannot fail to know, will and emit, and if God does not give the goodness of the acts in question he will have been unable to know and will well". 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 306
It is indeed true that God had made man mutably good, had infallibly foreseen his sin, had foreordained the permission of the sin and given man no doubt sufficient strength to shun sin, but inoperable without His influx; that meanwhile He had inflowed into man's faculties for natural actions, by not inflowing into the moral entity of such actions. 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 307
For God works good things in us, not bad."-MASTRICHT (IV, I, 20): "The Reformed insist that man had committed this first sin altogether freely, because (notwithstanding God's eternal decree, the predetermining influx of providence and the like) he committed it by reasonable counsel and satisfaction, in which alone the freedom of our judgment strictly consists."-LEIDEN 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 307
Not as though God had made him in a state of conflict between spirit and flesh or had, by withdrawing the help of grace by which He empowered man's free will to morally good action, thrust him into this struggle before the temptation and left him to himself. 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 307
SYNOPSIS (XIV, 32): "Although God created both parents mutably good, this mutability in their intact state was neither a defect in the nature made in the image of God nor sin nor the cause of sin but a condition suited to the creature, from which the Creator is distinguished by this incommunicable mark of perfection, because per se ac natura He is unchangeably good".-WALAEUS 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 310
mundi 235): "They had received sufficient grace both to do good and to beware of evil if they but willed, and theirs was the power and duty to obtain by prayer the necessary strengthening. 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 310
Had they tested this at the right time which seemed good to God, they had the power to be confirmed indeed as angels.-In the actual temptation there arose a certain elation of mind, because of which God allowed man to be overcome in temptation. 

Chapter XIV: The Violation of the Covenant of Works Page 315
The creature is subject to vanity".-MARESIUS (V, 59): "Without labour or trouble the earth would have produced its good things for him and the woman would have been sure to bring forth children without pain.-(VI, 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 320
The outward action as caused by God is good in itself, so that if the man does it with an anti-God intention, it can only be designated sin in an improper sense.

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 321
act itself in which the sin is committed is "physically" good; and therefore only improperly can it be described as sin; LEIDEN SYNOPSIS (XVI, 9): "Now the adjacent subject of this sin with which we are dealing-the scholastics call it the material-is a res or an actio physically good, with which the privatio in question coheres as a sort of moral form or rather deformity; whence it happens that not only the actual viciousness but also the whole actio together with the viciousness is denominatively (as they say in schools) called sin and evil".-Hence says KECKERMANN, 268: "It is risky to define sin as an actio: because every second action is derived from the first Action, namely God. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 321
In the same sense VOETIUS (I, 1132): "The word peccatum may be taken in a double sense: "either abstractly for sin as such or for ἀνομία and defect in human action, speaking with such strictness and precision as to distinguish it from the substrate action or the act and motion itself regarded physically or metaphysically in the category of an ens; or concretely for the entire complex consisting of these three elements, (1) the substrate act in which ἀνομία inheres; (2) the actual ἀνομία or moral defect inherent in such act; (3) the ordainability and ordaining of such a sin-laden act to some good. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 321
But if in the second sense we are maintaining that not just a bare permission is to be solely attributed to God, but in addition a real operation according to a positive and effectual decree of will with its adjunct or affect, necessity; not of course absolutely but in a sense confined to the substrate act and to its ordainability and ordaining for good; no one except an Epicurean, denies that this is effected by God, the supreme good and first cause."

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 322
(IV, II, 22) in this connection makes the following distinction: "The Reformed recognise that the will is the direct [δεικτικός-direct as opposed to reductio ad absurdum] subject of all moral good and evil. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 323
All positive being is created by God and therefore good as such. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 323
But this lack is not a mera privatio, but simultaneously an active quality opposed to the good, an actuosa privatio or vitiositas, the absolute opposite of righteousness.-POLAN (VI, 3): "The form or formal nature of sin is deformity, i.e. aberration from the divine law, ἀνομία. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 323
Accordingly sin is nothing but what is committed against the law of God.-So it is not mere privatio, but also an evil quality inherent in a soul, contrary to the good quality which conforms with the law of God. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 323
Every evil is in a good and dwells in it as in another man's farm, so that it cannot be separated from it; and the cause and author of all good is God; but of evil as such the author could not be God. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 324
In this sense Thomas declares that "sin is not a pure privatio, i.e. merely absence of good, but a sort of habit or act robbed of its due order, i.e. a tearing or disturbance of the order, by which all our powers and inclinations ought to be ruled."

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Pages 324–325
this definition it is clear that the proper nature and form of this sin consists in the absence of the form of righteousness and holiness, which according to God's law should be in our actions inward or outward, whence too Augustine's excellent remark (De civit. Dei lib. 11, c. 9), that "evil has no nature; the name of evil is given to the loss of good."-When therefore it is asserted by some writers of the Reformed Church that evil is not a pure privation, this is not to be understood as though evil possessed per se some truly positive or metaphysical nature. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 325
Every such entity is good and comes from God, alone the author of all good; for in Him we live and move and are, Ac. 17:28. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 325
Whence it comes about that sin is enunciated by Scripture not only negatively but positively and an efficacy is assigned to it contrary and inimical to holiness and righteousness Rom. 8:7 (the mind of the flesh is enmity against God; it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can it be:) Gal. 5:17 (the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; these are contrary the one to the other; that ye may not do the things that ye would); because the movement and action in which the privatio inheres, by dint of the inherent privation, opposes the holy and righteous movement and action and in consequence the law of God as well.-Moreover the proximate subject of this sin which we are dealing with (‘material' is the Scholastic term) is a thing or action physically good, in which the privatio inheres, like a moral form or rather deformity. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 325
7.-The direct effects of sin are defilement, macula in the soul (pollutio spiritualis, difformitas naturae), as a result of which the soul can no longer be an object of the divine good-pleasure (v. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 326
9.-The cause of sin is not God.-BEZA (I, 361): "We have already shown that God righteously orders what men do unrighteously; that God, I mean, makes good use of the sinning instrument. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Pages 326–327
URSIN (Loci, p. 624) leads the following arguments to prove that "God is not the cause, effect or author of sin": (1) The express testimonies of H. Scripture Gen. 1:31 (God saw everything that he had made, and, behold, it was very good), Ps. 5:4–6 (Thou art not God that hath pleasure in wickedness: the evil man shall not sojourn with thee. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 328
It is per se the cause of an effect, if it not only calls the causa propinqua into existence, but also leads and determines it" in producing the effect which it intends-as when God moves the will of man, whom He has made, to good works. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 328
This liability to change is grounded in the fact that man possesses free will, good as such in and for itself, but still as a dependent creation not the absolute good, being incapable of having moral unchangeability in itself; and that he must therefore be able to turn aside from the good.

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 328
Man's freedom consists in his loyalty to his limitations, to his original nature and to that which is his essential good. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 328
(XXV, 10): "It is indeed pre-eminently clear that if any mind persists in its beginning, it is truly free by willing and loving its good; it enjoys freely what it enjoys securely." 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 329
Of course it is true that "the election of the will is concerned with good and evil; but the result is not that freedom is indifference to good and evil, far less that mutability is present in freedom. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 329
Even God's will is concerned with good and evil not for deliberation, but to will the former and to hate the latter unchangeably. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 329
Thus fell the Devil, since "the invention of false wisdom, i.e. of a lie, brought him down headlong", and similarly "the mind which was clothed by God with a body and to which He gave command over the bodily members, by gradually dropping God's mastery, while having of its own accord adjudged true the end of a tempting fruit, which was not its true end, fell from its own end and good and beauty".-HEIDEGGER 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 329
(X, 10) thus replies to the question of the causa mali: "Either (1) there is no evil, or (2) it is originally derived from evil, or (3) it is derived from good," and reaches this decision: "If there is no evil, it was in vain the Lord bade us pray "Deliver us from the evil one".-If evil is originally derived from evil, the pestilence of the Manichees will triumph, who assert that sin comes of an evil God; thus even God will be evil, i.e. God will not be God.-Nor do those avoid the difficulty who with the Jews and the Pelagians summon evil from the state of matter, as though it could not have happened that something should be created of matter, which was not concupiscent and had not an evil desire". 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 329
Hence the conclusion: "It remains that the cause of evil is good, not that supreme and immutable one which is God.-But a lower one, dependent on the supreme One, a rational creature, at once good and free, but, because of the imperfection of a nature made out of nothing and not rising to the perfection of God being created thus changeably, could exchange its goodness and freedom for wickedness and slavery.-A 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 329
good tree can exchange its goodness for badness and thus changed bear evil fruits. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Pages 329–330
The case is analogous of the good rational creature, which, as long as it is such, could not bear evil fruits; but by exchanging its good will for a bad by the conversion not of its nature but of its qualities could germinate none but evil fruits". 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 330
Then follows the explanation: "This conversion of the will from a good into a bad one arose from the fact that the will, having a wider range than knowledge, fashioned happiness out of things unascertained and unknown and so having abandoned its guide with eyes and having adopted a blind one it fell with him into the pit".-In 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 331
Our nature is not merely poor and empty of good, but so fertile and fruitful in all evils that it cannot be idle".-The 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 331
DIEST 82: "Original corruption consists of two parts, the deprivation of good and the inclination to evil".

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 334
(2) God foresaw that each of Adam's posterity put in his own place would sin and that then this world would not be very good, that therefore all might be justly punished: that God acted kindly in appointing Adam the first man, in allowing his fall and imputing it (p. 30) to his posterity. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 335
254: "Inherent original sin is a disposition of the human faculties with a proclivity for evil, arising from the privation of those powers, which man used to possess for good before the Fall".-Many expressly insist that original sin, and imputed as well as inherent, had also existed in the mother of Christ; that on the other hand Christ himself was free from original sin, this resulting from the following reasons (BRAUN I, III, 3, 20), "(1) because he was not in Adam's covenant; (2) he was not born in virtue of the general blessing, Increase and be multiplied Gen. 1:28, but in consequence of the special pact between Father and Son; (3) he was conceived by the H. Spirit Lk. 1:35. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 336
16.-This corruption is a twofold one, (1) "the defect of original good" and (2) "the succession of evil to the place of original good". 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 336
(VI, 3): "Defect of original good is the innate corruption or pravity by which our whole nature has been deprived of the original goodness or grace in which the first man had been created. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 336
In the soul the defect or vacuity is of original goodness and grace in every part, i.e. in the mind and in the will. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 336
The will has been shorn of uprightness and freedom for good pleasing to God. Moreover the body has been robbed of conformity in affections and desires and locomotion with the law of God".

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 336
In short the forces, attributes and organs of the body are filled and dominated by it.-POLAN (VI, 3): "The evil which has succeeded to the place of original good is that innate corruption or pravity, by which the whole nature is rendered unsuitable for good and merely prone to evil. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 337
Hence blindness and ignorance are assigned to the mind, rebellion and contumacy to the will; and the whole man through and through is called corrupt, so that he can know nothing true and produce nothing good and requires regeneration and sanctification for both his parts."

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Pages 338–339
I find then the law, that, to me who would do good, evil is present), Heb. 12:1 (let us … lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us).-It inheres in man like an accident in a subject. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 339
Moreover our nature is changed neither by sin nor by grace into a different essence, even if it is infected with evil or perfected by good."-BUCAN (XVI, 28): "Is sin of origin a substance or an accident? 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 339
Now as a substance body and soul are good creations of God, still being created by God. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 339
I find then the law, that to me, who would do good, evil is present)."-LUD. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 340
HEIDEGGER proceeds (X, 48) from the statement: "The formal reason of original sin consists neither in liability for another's sin, nor in concupiscence alone nor in the bare lack of righteousness, but in the active absence of righteousness and in lively evil," and he continues: "This sin is of course the lack of original righteousness, which was natural to the first man; yet not bare lack, but such as places ignorance in the understanding, aversion from good in the will, and conversion to evil, rebellion in the will; in all these spiritual death in what is good and the liveliest life in what is evil. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 340
IX, 36–37): "Original inherent sin is that sinful disposition, by which man is inept for any good and inclined to all evil.-37. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Pages 340–341
It is called a positive quality according as by it man is truly deprived of a good habit, which should be in him and is disposed and urged towards every evil. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 341
Here then we must hold that one thing is a positive physically, in the sense in which being and good are convertible and nothing is positive which is not from God; another is a positive ethically and logically, which is affirmed of the subject in which it inheres, whether it be good or evil. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 346
Nor even separately: either through the body, since with the soul withdrawn it is a brute thing utterly incapable of good and evil; or by the soul, since, as we said, it is concreated by God for each. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 348
The relation between inherited and actual sin must therefore not be conceived as the relation in sinfulness quoad potentiam and quoad actum, which is already excluded by the distinction between the "substrate action" (in and for itself good) and the "malice of heart" in every sinful action, as well as by the recognition that original sin is real and makes man guilty in the sight of God. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 348
Hence says MASTRICHT (IV, III, 5): "Sin is called actual, not because it is only sin by action, whereas original is not so save potentially, as Pelagianisers would like to have it, since even this is sin by action, in fact all sin is this ἐξοχῶς, indeed virtually: but because it is the deviation of action, under which however we also include habit, whereas original is the habitual duration of our whole nature".-POLAN (VI, 3): "Sin is called actual, not because sin is an actio or because an actio is sin, but because sin is in an actio, in which although it is good qua actio, there nevertheless adheres defect of moral goodness and wickedness; and that defect plus the wickedness is strictly sin, because committed by man, not by God. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 350
As to how this holds good of the sins of unbelievers PICTET e.g. says (XI, ii, 10): "We do not confuse the continence of Scipio with the portentous lusts of Nero, Fabricius and Catiline; not because the former was good, but because he was less bad, as Augustine says".-VIRELLIUS 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 350
He even frequently bestows generously the things that give occasion for exhibiting them, good health, a quiet life, praise and popularity and the like. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Pages 351–352
26.-It is better to use other divisions of sins: (1) inward sins or sins of the heart; and outward sins or sins of word and deed; (2) sins of omission, by which that which the law enjoins is omitted; and of commission, by which that is committed which the law forbids: (or it is a sin of omission where the act or the goodness of the act is lacking (BRAUN, 372)); (3) sins against God by which He is directly hurt (idolatry, blasphemy, etc.); against one's neighbour, by which the neighbour is hurt; and against ourselves, by which through his own fault a man does harm to himself or to his bodily or spiritual health; (4) sin per se, directly prohibited by the laws of God; and sin per accidens, not prohibited by the law of God but enjoined and so good in itself and by reason of the outward act, but lacking in some cause or circumstance: this may occur in four ways; (a) in its inception, if the act does not proceed from a good beginning; (b) in its upshot, if it is not referred to the glory of God or is referred to a bad end; (c) in its degree, as the faithful sin in those works of theirs which proceed from weak faith and love; (d) in its circumstances of place and time, whereby many things are done lawfully in and at one place and time, which would not be done lawfully in and at another place and time; (5) sins deliberate; and sins accidental where something turns out contrary to intention; (6) crying sins which call for the unique punishment of God for obvious reasons (shedding innocent blood, cheating fellow-workers, striking or oppression of widows, orphans, poor people, etc.); (7) spiritual sins, done within the spirit (heresy, pride, envy) and carnal sins (drunkenness, fornication).

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 352
But the peculiar thing about fornication is, that the man who sins with his body indeed brings its members into obedience to sin but does not strictly make them the property of sin; but the fornicator strictly makes his members the property of sin and so of the devil, the author of lust and wantonness, because he makes over his rights and powers over his own body to the whore and to the devil himself, if not for good (as obtains in wedlock) at least for a time".

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Pages 353–354
The passage Heb. 6:4–7 HEIDEGGER (X, 74) explains as follows: "It is impossible, says (Paul) [sic!], for those once illuminated (through Scripture and ἔλεγχος, through reproof and conviction, as a result of that which (Jn. 16:8, 11 "he when he is come, will convict the world in respect of sin, and of righteousness and of judgment … of judgment, because the prince of this world is judged") is attributed to the H. Spirit, that through which those illuminated recognise that they are wandering in error and that the truth is contained in the Word of God), so that they have tasted the heavenly gift of God (Christ, that bread of life which is come down from heaven Jn. 6:51 as the Saviour of the world, who came from heaven and rose again from the dead, him they have thoroughly realised and in a sense have already tasted his χρηστότης), and have become participants in the H. Spirit (meaning the gifts of the H. Spirit, which on Christ's ascension into heaven are communicated in His effusion by χειροθεσία, with the object of making Christ's kingdom glorious, and the Church's firstfruits to be planted) and have tasted the good Word of God (the gospel of the justification of the sinner by the sole grace of God through faith, which is par excellence the καλὸν θεοῦ ῥῆμα, the good word of God), and the power of the age to come (the good things, both of grace in the N.T. and of the glory which awaits in heaven those perfected in heaven, they realised not incidentally or by a certain sense and joy of the H. Spirit, but have rather in a way sipped that which is more carnal than spiritual) and if they have fallen away (i.e. lapsed not simpliciter but ἑκουσίως, willingly, as St. Paul explains himself Heb. 10:26, "If we sin wilfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more a sacrifice for sins", from maliginity, petulance, hatred, not from ignorance or fear, things which convict a man of doing something not ἕκων but ἄκων, not wishing to do it, having fallen away in revolt, both by resuming their whilom errors and the habits they had abandoned, by becoming hardened in them have sought a second death like a fresh hardening Rev. 9:6, "In these days men shall seek death and shall in no wise find it; and they shall desire to die, and death fleeth from them"; and with devilish hatred have blasphemed the truth revealed to man by the H. Spirit, exactly as if it had proceeded from the devil), [it is impossible for them] to be renewed a second time to repentance (not because on a former occasion they were truly renewed within and endued with new faith and wisdom, but because they were retaining a certain resemblance to new wisdom, not without a certain joyfulness, but that carnal, appearing to themselves and to others renewed, quickened, enlightened and born again, whom the Apostle declares roundly to be incapable of being renewed again to repentance, as having fallen away voluntarily".

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Pages 356–357
th. XXIX, 48: "But when a man has learned fundamental truth Heb. 10:26 (if we sin wilfully, after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more a sacrifice for sins), having been convinced by H. Scripture, a conviction which takes place by the ἔλεγχος, redargutio or conviction of the H. Spirit Jn. 16:8, 11 (he when he is come, will convict the world in respect of sin, and of righteousness and of judgment … of judgment, because the prince of this world is judged"), or as the Apostle says Heb. 6:4–5, when a man has once been enlightened to know that he has been walking in error, that the truth is contained in the Word of God, and in such wise that he has tasted the heavenly gift, Christ given from heaven, and has become a participator in the H. Spirit, i.e. in the gifts with which the Church has been adorned and is edified, and has tasted the good word of God anent gratuitous justification by faith and the powers of the age to come, in the joy with which he received the word (for in these ways and excluding those which are κρείττονα and ἐχόμενα τῆς σωτηρίας, they may take place in the unregenerate) if then he sins voluntarily, i.e. returns to former errors and abandoned customs and blasphemes the truth out of hatred (seeking death Rev. 9:6, i.e. his former induration), he blasphemes the H. Spirit, because Him whom he had formerly called the Spirit of truth and grace he calls a spirit of falsehood, and not Him alone, but also the Father and the Son".

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Pages 357–358
The sin against the H. Spirit is committed by those who have learned and understood the truth of the gospel through the illumination of the H. Spirit, and are so convinced by it that they cannot deny it and out of hostility and hatred as good as wickedly and obstinately renounce, blaspheme, damn and persecute such acknowledged truth against their own conscience. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 361
34.-"Spiritual death is spiritual impotence, arising out of the removal of original righteousness, to achieve spiritual good spiritually, conjoined with spiritual slavery" (MASTRICHT IV, iv, 9). 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 361
By nature we mean the natural and essential property bestowed by God on the will, by which it happens that whatever it wills whether good or evil, it always wills it freely, spontaneously, unrestrainedly, always free from any compulsion. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Pages 361–362
By the word vires we understand an innate or bestowed potentia by which we can both know with the mind what things are good and what bad, and choose with the will the former and reject the latter."-BUCAN 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 362
But the powers of these faculties for spiritual good have been completely lost. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 362
Knowledge (intellectus) is thoroughly blind in things divine, lacking true awareness of God and saving understanding of His word, according to that of David in Ps. 14:3 (they are all gone aside; they are together become filthy; there is none that doeth good, no, not one) and Paul's 1 Cor. 2:14 (the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him; and he cannot know them, because they are spiritually judged), Rom. 8:7 (the mind of the flesh is enmity against God; it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be). 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 362
Powers and conations having plainly been removed have at the same time become useless 1 Cor, 12:3 (no man speaking in the Spirit of God saith, Jesus is anathema; and no man can say, Jesus is Lord, but in the Holy Spirit) 2 Cor. 3:5 (not that we are sufficient of ourselves, to account anything as of ourselves; but our sufficiency is of God) Phil. 2:13 (it is God which worketh in you both to will and to work, for his good pleasure)".-LUD. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 362
CROCIUS (p. 913): "In order to the state of corruption man's liberum arbitrium is not only wounded, weakened and attenuated for true spiritual good, but also enslaved, destroyed, lost and its powers are not only weakened and broken unless assisted by grace, but even non-existent (nullae) unless excited and restored by grace".-BURMANN 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 363
There remain the accidental powers of the arbitrium in respect of outward good, natural, civil and moral, without detriment to the foreknowledge, decree and predetermination of God. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 363
36.-It must also be recognised that, supported by the common grace of God fallen man is capable of producing an ordinary morality and of doing good in external and natural things, or at least of exercising himself in them. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 363
But even the goodness that man does in external, natural and ordinary things is not truly good and pleasing to God. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 363
As a result, it is true, the naturally and the ordinarily good works are rewarded by God with temporal benefits. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 363
And in spiritual things man can do absolutely nothing good, since his spiritual eye is veiled from the knowledge of God that brings blessing and his will can do and achieve only what is contrary to God's good pleasure.

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 363
RIISSEN (IX, 45): "The question is not as to outward civil and moral good. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 363
We do not deny that some powers still survive in man after the lapse, as regards those outward works and civil goods, so that he exercises justice and temperance and emits an act of mercy and charity, so that he keeps his hands from theft and murder and emits operations of like virtues by the antecedent concurrence of God and His general assistance; this is the outlook of Gentile virtues, of which later. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 363
But the question is of spiritual and supernatural good which is pleasing and acceptable to God: whether man in the state of sin is so corrupt, that the power of his liberum arbitrium as regards the good in question are not only slipped and worn but quite perished, so that he cannot know anything truly saving or do anything good: which is what we affirm".-HOTTINGER 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 364
Hence it must be maintained: "(1) That no man by the remains of liberum arbitrium can exercise perfect good or ethical, political or economic virtue without the special grace of the H. Spirit. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 365
Further this faculty, whatever its extent and although in appearance it is at times a distinguished righteousness, does not rise beyond the political and honourable and philosophical variety and is unable to rise to the true good pleasing to God. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 365
Nor are they undertaken, performed and directed with the end due to God's glory-by which things nevertheless a good work should be assessed.-23. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 365
And accordingly all such action here, although directed towards good and, if you look at the act itself, good in and for itself, yet because not well done, is turned into sin and is inflamed by sins Rom. 14:23 (He that doubteth is condemned … whatsoever is not of faith is of sin) Heb. 11:6 (without faith it is impossible to be well-pleasing; he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that seek after him); and so the arbitrium and the action and work flowing therefrom are truly sin. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 365
However there is greater sin in the man who wills, desires and does evil things in se and per se, than in the man who acts morally and does badly things good in themselves. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 366
POLAN (VI, 6): "The man who is not reborn has no strength or very little, by which in any way to respond to God if He called him, or to open the door to His knock, or to assent to His proposal of salvation, or in short to co-operate with Him, if He operated upon him".-MASTRICHT (IV, iv, 33): "Although the Reformed grant readily that man can non-resist in a negative way, as a man naturally dead can non-resist attempts to restore him to life, and although they concede that unregenerate man may frequent churches, pour forth prayers and other outward things, they deny that he can non-resist positively; they deny that an unregenerate can perform these outward good things by the sheer strength of their natural arbitrium, save by common grace; on which see Paul, Heb. 6:4, 5, 6 (as touching those who were once enlightened and tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the H. Ghost, and tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come, and then fall away, it is impossible to renew them again to repentance …)".-BURMANN (VI, ii, 19: "The previous dispositions of man have no place here".-PICTET 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Pages 366–367
"In this way man will be said to have liberum arbitrium, not because he has the free choice of good and evil alike, but because he acts badly, by his will, not by compulsion".-LEIDEN 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 367
Moreover God is absolutely good, can as little will death for death's sake, as for the sake of anything else. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Page 368
Death is not by nature; it is the destruction of nature, and cannot be sought per se by any good man, not to speak of the supremely good, nor sought and inflicted by God for any other reason than for sin, and as a compensation for that in which the nature of punishment consists. 

Chapter XV: Sin, or Man's State of Corruption and Misery Pages 368–369
(IV, iv, 16): "This eternal death includes (1) total, final and eternal deprivation of all communion with God the highest good, and of every saving benefit Mt. 25:41, 46 (Depart from me, ye cursed, into the eternal fire which is prepared for the devil and his angels … and these shall go away into eternal punishment …); (2) horrible communion and society with the unclean spirits of hell to all eternity Mt. 25:41–3), incredible horrors and twists of conscience due to the recollections of sins, by which they spontaneously attracted these evils to themselves, and which arise from the sense of divine wrath and indignation Is. 66:24 (And they shall go forth and look upon the carcases of the men that have transgressed against me; for their worm shall not die, neither shall their fire be quenched; and they shall be an abhorring unto all flesh) 30:33 (a Topheth is prepared of old; yea, for the king it is made ready; he hath made it deep and large: the pile thereof is fire and much wood; the breath of the Lord, like a stream of brimstone, doth kindle it) Rom. 11:8–9 (according as it is written, God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear, unto this very day. 

Chapter XVI: The Covenant of Grace Page 373
IV, 86): The covenant of grace rests altogether upon the testament of God, "which is a free disposition by God the Saviour concerning His goods by His heir, to be possessed in accordance with voluntary generation and nomination beyond all danger of alienation Rom. 4:14 (if they which are of the law be made heirs, faith is made void, and the promise is made of none effect) Gal. 3:15–18 (… Though it be but a man's covenant, yet when it hath been confirmed, no one maketh it void or addeth to it. 

Chapter XVI: The Covenant of Grace Page 375
In fact (818): "so much more are they the good things and benefits of the covenant and so too of the testament, that on account of his corruption and slave arbitrium man cannot himself produce faith and holiness in himself".-It 

Chapter XVI: The Covenant of Grace Page 375
p. 712), but chiefly and principally because eternal goods have been bequeathed by the testator's wish, and because those very goods also which the testator demands flow from the same testament".

Chapter XVI: The Covenant of Grace Page 378
We speak of a consilium Dei, so far as it is the cause and goal of all things, so far as it deals not only with the good but also with the bad, and so far as it comes before us in the revelation of grace and of judgment. 

Chapter XVI: The Covenant of Grace Page 382
"The covenant of grace is a gratuitous agreement between an offended God and certain offending men, in which of His grace and sheer good pleasure and to the same sobered believers God has assigned righteousness and life in the same Christ the Mediator, and these in turn, by promising to produce faith and sobriety to God through the grace of Christ, obtain from Him righteousness and the right to expect life" (HEIDEGGER XI, 8).-In the main these dogmaticians' definitions perfectly coincide. 

Chapter XVI: The Covenant of Grace Pages 382–383
de foed, 76): "The covenant of grace is an agreement between God and sinful man, God declaring His free good pleasure to give righteousness and an inheritance to a fixed seed in the Mediator by faith for the glory of His grace and through the promise of righteousness to be given to those that believe in Him who invites, man agreeing by faith of heart with what was contracted for peace and friendship and the right to expect an inheritance in good conscience Lk. 12:32 (fear not, little flock: it is the Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom).-MARESIUS 

Chapter XVI: The Covenant of Grace Page 383
476: "The covenant of grace is a gratuitous agreement between God and the sinner, in which by His free good pleasure God assigns to a fixed seed through the injunction of repentance and faith, righteousness and an inheritance in the Mediator. 

Chapter XVI: The Covenant of Grace Page 383
(II, i, 5): "The covenant of grace is an agreement between God and the elect sinner, God declaring His free good pleasure anent the free giving of eternal salvation and all the covenanted blessings pertaining thereto, through and because of Christ the Mediator, man moreover falling in with the decree in question by sheer faith".-HOTTINGER 

Chapter XVI: The Covenant of Grace Page 386
COCCEIUS (S.T. XLI, 2): "The ‘foedus which God makes with the sinner' consists of four parts: (1) the stipulatio, νομοθεσία or παραγγελία; (2) the ‘conditioned promise persuading us to obey or assent'; (3) the ‘sinner's right to obtain or claim or expect the good promised, whereby; (4) he is righteous and is so called' ".

Chapter XVI: The Covenant of Grace Page 389
VI, 198): To the "declaratio of God's good pleasure or testament" there also belong the sanctio and confirmatio of it. 

Chapter XVI: The Covenant of Grace Page 393
both cases the covenanted parties are the same: God, one in essence, trine in personae, offended at men's sins but reconcilable ex gratia; and likewise offending men in need of reconciliation to God.-Before and after the fall there was and is the same mediator, Jesus Christ, reconciling offending man to an offended God by his promise and his death, and by its efficacy even if not yet extant or by its actual merit if extant.-The actions of the covenant of grace, the stipulation of faith and repentance and the further stipulation answering to it, as well as the promise of righteousness and life and the corresponding restipulation to that, were imposed in common upon the whole Church before and after Christ.-Like the stipulation and astipulation of the covenant of grace the divine promise of it and its human restipulation, meaning the benefits of the covenant, namely Christ's righteousness together with the benefits annexed and life eternal and the right to both, competent for believers, by the ἐρώτησις or interrogation of a good conscience, agree in any state of the Church.-The adoption of the fathers in the OT to be sons was sigillatim.-In short these same fathers had both the promise and the supply of life, eternal and blessed, after this temporal one, both of the spirit of course after death and of the whole man after the resurrection from the dead.-As 

Chapter XVI: The Covenant of Grace Pages 393–394
23.-But although the substance of the covenant of grace was from the start an unchangeable, eternal ordinance, the manner and mode of proclaiming and appropriating it varied at different periods-HEIDEGGER (XI, 91): "Although however both covenant and testament of grace have been a single, immutable and eternal entity and the application of it as regards its substance the same at any one time, nevertheless its inward and outward mode of publication and of application by the same most wise decree and good pleasure of God is susceptible of a certain difference, which still does not derogate at all from the established unity of the covenant itself".

Chapter XVI: The Covenant of Grace Page 406
II-OT more obscure because of figures and types Col. 2:14–17 (having blotted out the bond written in ordinances that was against us, which was contrary true … which are a shadow of things to come …) Heb. 10:1 (the law having a shadow of the good things to come, not the very image of the things, they can never with the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, make perfect them that draw nigh): the NT clearer by their removal Tit. 2:11 (the Grace of God hath appeared, bringing salvation to all men. 

Chapter XVI: The Covenant of Grace Page 407
Their condition is steadfast to the end of the world Mt. 28:20 (lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world) Jer. 32:40 (I will make an everlasting covenant with them, that I will not turn away from them, to do them good; and I will put my fear in their hearts, that they shall not depart from me). 

Chapter XVII: The Mediator of the Covenant of Grace or The Person of Christ Pages 411–412
WOLLEB, p. 62: "That he should be God was required by the state of the parties, on the one hand the majesty of God, on the other our poverty and the magnitude of the evil to be removed and of the good to be restored. 

Chapter XVII: The Mediator of the Covenant of Grace or The Person of Christ Pages 413–414
(when the fulness of time came, God sent forth His Son, born of a woman, born under the law …) Phil. 2, although he was incarnate by the will and good pleasure of the sacrosanct Trinity."

Chapter XVII: The Mediator of the Covenant of Grace or The Person of Christ Pages 419–420
But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid) Lk. 24:39 (See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye behold me having) Heb. 2:14 (since the children are sharers in flesh and blood, he also in like manner partook of the same …); moreover, by synecdoche constituted a man complete in body and in rational soul, the essential parts of human nature-nay, a perfect man, endowed with the natural and indeed essential qualities which inhere necessarily and inseparably in him.-In 

Chapter XVII: The Mediator of the Covenant of Grace or The Person of Christ Page 421
Our affections are mostly directed towards illicit and bad objects; Christ's were never directed towards evil but always towards good. 

Chapter XVII: The Mediator of the Covenant of Grace or The Person of Christ Page 424
Further, the Spirit's attitude here is not material but efficient only, δημιουργικὸς not σπερματικος; so that he might be conceived by the Spirit's power, not substance; not by generation but by benediction and consecration; so that the preposition ἐκ is the mark of efficient cause, as often elsewhere, Rom. 11:36 (of him and through him and to him are all things), since all things are said to be of God and 1 Jn. 3:9 the good are born ἐκ τοῦ θεοῦ. 

Chapter XVII: The Mediator of the Covenant of Grace or The Person of Christ Page 435
conferring of gifts, by which the human nature in Christ's person was adorned and by which he excels all creatures in wisdom, goodness, holiness, power, majesty and glory; (615) which the Fathers call the deification of the flesh, the Scholastics habitual grace, quite distinct from the communion of ἰδιώματα which is alternate and is an ἀντίδοσις ὀνομάτων [a reciprocation of names or qualities?]".-KECKERMANN 321: "By the union Christ's human nature possesses the graces called habitual, i.e., most excellent good things, to wit, such complete knowledge as can befall a creature, and others of the kind. 

Chapter XVII: The Mediator of the Covenant of Grace or The Person of Christ Page 436
knowledge of good things is that by which in closest union with the divine nature the human nature sees, though it does not understand, what it knows. 

Chapter XVII: The Mediator of the Covenant of Grace or The Person of Christ Page 437
Faith therefore is attributed to Christ, not so far as it is trustful apprehension of God's mercy, because so it is competent for sinners only; nor in a sense of a mode of knowing about the obscurity of the enigma, 2 Cor. 5:7 (by faith, not by sight), which argues imperfection; but as regards the substance of knowing and assent to the thing known, i.e., the doctrine revealed by God and the trust which rests upon God's goodness providing all things needful for us. 

Chapter XVII: The Mediator of the Covenant of Grace or The Person of Christ Page 443
This difference also holds good in things natural. 

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Page 449
Cf. e.g. MARESIUS, X, 4: "Moreover since the good angels have neither sinned ever nor required to be reconciled to God, Christ can in no sense be called their Mediator."

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Page 450
That rests rather upon the Father's decree and good pleasure, without which Christ could have merited nothing on our behalf.

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Page 451
And it (the merit) depends on and flows from the sheer good pleasure of God, because its (the merit's) efficient cause was the will of God the Father, i.e. His ordinance made from eternity, as we read Heb. 10:10, "by which will we have been sanctified." 

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Page 451
Of course Christ could not have merited anything save by the eternal good pleasure of God. 

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Page 451
Secondly, the first beginning of our salvation is not fixed in Christ's merit, we must go back to the will and ordinance of God which is the first cause Heb. 10:10, because by His mere good pleasure God made him mediator to acquire us salvation. 

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Page 468
Accordingly the definition is (LEIDEN SYNOPSIS XXIX, 4): "Satisfaction is an act of Christus θεάνθρωπος, i.e., God and man, by which, in accordance with the divine, benevolent and just decree for his obedience to the Father and love towards men, putting himself freely and readily as a pledge and sponsor in our place, i.e., in our place and for our good, Christ paid on our behalf all the penalties due for our sins, and by enduring and exhausting them he satisfied divine justice and by his merit delivered us from wrath, the curse of God and eternal death, and acquired righteousness and eternal life, so as to declare God's righteousness and mercy and to save us." Hence H. Scripture says that Christ bore the punishment instead of us, gave himself to death on our behalf as a reconciliation and became a curse for us.-HEIDEGGER (XIX, 70): "No small emphasis on proving Christ's satisfaction through the bearing of vicarious punishment is contained in the utterances of Scripture, in which Christ's death is said to have been sought ὑπερ, on behalf of us, also ἀντι, vice us, in our room. 

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Pages 468–469
Mt. 26:28 (this is my blood of the Covenant, which is shed for many unto remission of sins) Rom. 5:8 (God commendeth his own love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us); 2 Cor. 5:15, 21 (he died for all, that they which live should no longer live unto themselves, but unto him who for their sakes died and rose again-him who knew no sin he made to be sin on our behalf; that we might become the righteousness of God in him): Gal. 3:13 (Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us): 1 Tim. 2:6 (who gave himself a ransom for all; the testimony to be borne in its own time): Heb. 2:9 (… Jesus, because of the suffering of death crowned with glory and honour, that by the grace of God he should taste death for every man): 1 Pet. 3:18 (Christ also suffered for sins once, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God; being put to death in the flesh, but quickened in the spirit): Jn. 10:11, 15 (I am the good shepherd; the good shepherd layeth down his life for the sheep; … I lay down my life for the sheep): Jn. 11:50–51 (… it is expedient for you that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not (Caiaphas)): Rom. 14:15 (… Destroy not with thy meat him for whom Christ died): 1 Cor. 15, 3 (Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures): Eph. 5:2 (And walk in love, even as Christ also loved you, and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for an odour of a sweet smell): 1 Pet. 4:1 (Forasmuch then as Christ suffered in the flesh, arm ye yourselves also with the same mind; for he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin): are outstanding.-The 

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Page 472
This is an inference from the passages where Christ is said to have died for us, not only for our convenience and good, but also in our room, by substitution strictly so called, Rom. 5:6–7 (while we were yet weak, in due season Christ died for the ungodly. 

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Page 472
For scarcely for a righteous man will one die: for peradventure for the good man someone would even dare to die. 

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Page 477
Cf., e.g., RIISSEN (XII, 11): "… the satisfaction of Christ might be said to be sufficient for the sins of one and all, if so it had seemed good to God; for since it was of infinite value, it was quite sufficient for the redemption of one and all, if it had seemed good to God to extend it to the whole world. 

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Page 479
(XIX, 91): "Although certain benefits do also redound to some, who are actually perishing, being called outwardly because of Christ's death and the preaching of the Gospel consequent thereon, but tend rather to ἀναπολόγησις and increase in damnation than to their salvation, Heb. 6:4–5 (As touching those who were once enlightened and tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost, and tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the age to come, and then fall away, it is impossible to renew them again to repentance). 

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Page 482
34.-Christ's kingdom is essentially of a spiritual kind; only all those belong to it who are spiritually born again, i.e., are members of the Church, and therefore it is essentially manifested in the state of the redemption of Christ.-CALVIN (II, xv, 3): "I come to (Christ's) Kingship, concerning which words would be in vain, unless readers were at first advised that its nature is spiritual; because therefrom we gather what its value is and what good it does us and its entire strength and eternity".-BURMANN 

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Page 483
35.-But if this mediating kingship of Christ is already to be distinguished from its participation in the general government of the world, Christ rules even the former at all only by the will of the Father, since the Son only wills what is of the Father's good pleasure.-HEIDEGGER 

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Page 483
Many dogmaticians make still fuller distinctions, e.g., CROCIUS, p. 1003: "To the kingly office belong (1) vocatio to participation in Christ's Kingship; (2) legislatio; (3) bestowal of the good things necessary in this life for salvation; (4) sweeping away the evils the opposite of these; (5) judgment together with the things annexed."

Chapter XVIII: The Mediatorial Office of Jesus Christ Page 484
Although the meritorious action of the mediator ceases and ought to cease, because otherwise it would be imperfect and so not meritorious, yet his will by which he demands the inheritance and the good of his inheritance will not cease. 

Chapter XIX: Christ's States of Exinanition and Exaltation Page 491
Whence we understand that Christ descended into hell not locally, i.e., by quitting the body with the substance of the soul for the place appointed for the damned, because with it he entered paradise, it he committed into the Father's hands; but virtually, secundum virtutem, by the strength by which he conquered hell and its pains in himself for our good. 

Chapter XX: Calling Page 510
Or better: "Calling (is the act of God) by which we are transferred from the first Adam to the second, from death, darkness and the state of sin to life, light and the covenant of grace, in order that being planted in Christ the Head and Root we may live and bring forth good fruits" (MARESIUS XI, 2). 

Chapter XX: Calling Pages 512–513
The non-elect called are not called according to the purpose and covenant of God, as heirs entered therein, but according to God's judgment and dispensation, whereby He suffers them in the outward communion of the elect through the Word of His goodness, convicts them of their wickedness and cuts short their excuse for not coming to the wedding of the King's Son. 

Chapter XX: Calling Page 519
This MASTRICHT e.g. (VI, viii, 7) indicates as follows: "The Reformed hold the view that in the elect (1) spiritual life is restored by regeneration; (2) this is stimulated and extended into action, so that the man grasps God and the mediator with true faith and conceives a serious purpose of abandoning sins and showing zeal for good works: this happens by conversion; finally (3) good habits or virtues are infused into the converted man and his will and these are advanced to all kinds of good works by sanctification."
Chapter XX: Calling Page 520
(XXI, 27): "In calling, drawing, leading and converting by His Word and Spirit, God both moves the will to attend to the proof, truth and goodness of the word announced; illumines the reason to conviction of the truth and healthfulness of the Gospel to which it thus attends, and to assent to it; and in a word bends and determines the same will, so that we love the true and good word, to which we attend and assent."

Chapter XX: Calling Page 520
CROCIUS p. 918: "(1) As regards the start towards good, or the first act of reparation and conversion, because of the liberum arbitrium's nature (which as regards things spiritual is truly corrupt, in fact dead, yet able to be stimulated and corrected by God) it does not co-operate with God, but remains passive in its attitude towards God's action. 

Chapter XX: Calling Page 520
This too is an act of good will. 

Chapter XX: Calling Page 523
That they are not borne off into extreme and desperate impiety is not the result of any goodness inborn in them, but is because God's eye watches over their salvation and His hand is stretched out still. 

Chapter XX: Calling Page 525
Second: that such morally good works are due by the non-reborn without divine providence and suggestion governing their minds, so that at last they might be gathered as elect into the Church. 

Chapter XX: Calling Page 525
Even in the non-reborn nothing good can be done, which God does not effect so far as it is good."

Chapter XX: Calling Page 529
Justifying faith is rooted intimately in the heart, consisting in the deep, most inward, vital and loving, and effectual impression by which the Word becomes ἔμφυτον and tempered by faith Jas. 1:21 (putting away all filthiness etc., receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls) Heb. 4:2 (… we have had the good tidings preached unto us, even as also they; but the word of hearing did not profit them, because they were not united by faith with them that heard). 

Chapter XX: Calling Pages 529–530
Temporary faith is thus distinguished essentially from justifying faith in that (1) it is not the regeneration of the whole man but only illumination of the reason (intellectus), and (2) it does not assure the certainty of sonship to God.-CALVIN (III, ii, 11): "I am aware it seems hard to some, when faith is assigned to the reprobate, seeing that Paul declares it to be the fruit of election and yet the knot is easily untied, for although none are enlightened unto faith or truly feel the effectiveness of the gospel except those ordained to salvation, experience yet shows that the reprobate are sometimes affected in almost the same way as the elect-the Lord, the better to convict them and leave them without excuse, worms His way into their minds (se insinuat in mentes eorum), so far as His goodness may be savoured without the Spirit of adoption.-They 

Chapter XX: Calling Page 531
I: Cognitio certa, embracing (1) notitia, by which the Word of God is known, especially that of the gospel and its promises, and through which it is known what we believe: (2) assensus, by which God's Word, including especially the promises of the Gospel, are approved as true, unshakable and sure.-II: Fiducialis apprehensio, whereby the promise of the gospel concerning Christ with all his benefits, made to all who repent and believe, realised from the Word and approved by assent as true and good, is assigned to himself by each repentant believer as a seal, put into practice, sought, applied, appropriated as being addressed to himself, and he rests wholly upon it and so leans upon it, that by its formula he is ready to live; and because of his firm conviction of the truth and power of Him that promiseth, he ventures to risk his life and soul and salvation in every kind of way".-BUCAN (XXIX, 7): "Faith is knowledge of, assent to and seeking for the grace promised in the Word, and so a firm trust and grasp of the salvation to be obtained for Christ's sake. 

Chapter XX: Calling Pages 531–532
There cannot be faith without knowledge, (1) because it comes by hearing; and hearing is by the Word of God Rom. 10:17 (belief cometh of hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ); (2) because it is wisdom by which God is known Is. 51:13 (… the Lord thy Maker, that stretched forth the heavens, and laid the foundations of the earth …) Jer. 31:34 (they shall teach no more every man his neighbour, saying, know the Lord; for they shall all know me: for I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin will I remember no more) Jn. 6:69 (We have believed and known that thou art the Holy One of God) 17:3 (and this is life eternal, that they should know thee, the only true God, and him whom thou didst send, even Jesus Christ) 1 Cor. 1:21 (seeing that in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom knew not God, it was God's good pleasure through the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe).-Nor is the faith which is not conjoined with firm trust any better than historical faith."-COCCEIUS 

Chapter XX: Calling Page 538
And that not only by a metaphorical manner and act of causation, which the SCHOOLMEN call moral, the goodness and meetness of the object being set forth by the measure of the end, as they say; propounding through the illuminated, practical intellect His final judgment, which the will necessarily follows: but also by His action directly affecting the will and inflowing upon the man's movement and action, while (if I may use AUGUSTINE'S words De grat. 

Chapter XX: Calling Page 538
Christi 14) by an inward and hidden miraculous and unspeakable power He effects in men's hearts not only true revelations but also good volitions. 

Chapter XX: Calling Page 540
CALVIN (IV, xvi, 17): "But how, say they, are infants regenerated, since they are not endowed with the knowledge of good and evil? 

Chapter XX: Calling Pages 540–541
(1) They are not capable of acts of faith or of knowledge, because it is not given without the action of reason, whence they are said not to know good or evil or to be able to distinguish between their right hand and their left, Deut. 1:39 (your little ones, which ye said should be a prey and your children which this day have no knowledge of good or evil, they shall go in thither, and unto them will I give it, and they shall possess it) Is. 7:16 (before the child shall know to refuse the evil, and to choose the good, the land, etc.) Jonah 4:11 (six score thousand people that cannot discern their right hand from their left); nor of assent, which must be conveyed to the object known; nor of trust, which has play in the special application of the promise of grace.-(2) 

Chapter XXI: Justification Page 543
3.-By the justification of man H. Scripture thinks not of an inpouring of God's righteousness into him (i.e. not of an actus physicus), but of a judicial declaratory act (actus forensis) by which God declares man righteous, i.e. to be an object of His good pleasure. 

Chapter XXI: Justification Page 553
But this faith effects justification not as a meritorious work or as the root of good works, but purely as a causa instrumentalis, not for one moment as a condition fulfillable by man,-for a condition of justification can only be laid down by the law, but not by free grace, and the single real condition of justification is perfect obedience to the law.-MASTRICHT 

Chapter XXI: Justification Page 558
This absolute pronouncement the Spirit makes in his heart when he says, Son, be of good cheer; thy sins have been remitted thee."

Chapter XXI: Justification Page 558
MARESIUS again (XI, 58) is different: "Our justification may be considered (1) actively and from God's side, not only in His counsel and where it was provided by His act of admitting Christ's satisfaction for our sins and resolving in Himself not to impute them to us for punishment but fairly and fully to condone them; but also, for the actual execution of the purpose, intimating this decree and counsel of his to us through the H. Spirit, and truly pronouncing over and to us, as it says in Heb. 4:16 (draw near with boldness unto the throne of Grace, that we may receive mercy and may find grace to help us in time of need) from the throne of grace, judicially, a true sentence of justification and absolution, practically in the words, Be of good courage, my Son, thy sins are forgiven thee Mt. 9:2.-(2) 

Chapter XXI: Justification Page 561
24.-Hence although the little word sola (fide) is not found in use where it speaks of justifying faith, and although in relation to good works faith is never solitary but always "effectual through love" and essentially "living faith", the meaning of Scripture teaching yet is most adequately expressed by saying that man is justified sola fide.-CROCIUS, p. 1,222: "Even if faith is never alone but is supported by good works as its fruits, yet it alone grasps Christ's merit and so alone justifies, even without the concurrence and assistance of works."-WALAEUS, 

Chapter XXI: Justification Page 564
Further, that James understands by works not works of the law but good works upon which we are founded, Eph. 2:10 (ye are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God afore prepared that we should walk in them). 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 565
"Sanctification is the gratuitous act of God by which He delivers believers, ingrafted in Christ by faith and justified by the H. Spirit, more and more from their native viciousness and renews them after His own image, in order that they may be rendered fit to glorify Him by good works."-(WOLLEB 144). 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 566
149: "Sanctification differs from justification (1) in genus; the righteousness of the former belongs to the category of quality, that of the latter to the category of relation; (2) in form; (a) in justification faith is regarded as a hand grasping the righteousness of Christ, in sanctification faith is regarded as the principle and root of good works; (b) in justification sin is removed only as regards liability and punishment, in sanctification it is gradually abolished as regards existence; (c) in justification Christ's righteousness is imputed to us, in sanctification a new righteousness inherent in us is infused into us; (3) in degrees: for justification is an acting, one, individual, perfect, happening alike to all; but sanctification is a successive act, gradually tending to perfection and, according to the variety in the gifts of the H. Spirit, more shining in some, less so in others.-148: 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 570
(XV, 10–12): "The norm to which good works ought to be directed is the moral law of God contained in the decalogue.-11: 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 570
8.-Subjectively considered the nature of sanctification is man's effort, lasting his whole life, to live in thought, word and action solely according to God's good pleasure and for His glory.-HEIDEGGER 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 571
Repentance is thus a gracious power, bestowed only on the elect, by which they lay aside the life of sin and busy themselves with righteousness.-BRAUN (I, iii, 12, 15): "Repentance is a kind of evangelical virtue given by God to the elect alone, by which they acknowledge their sins, shudder at them and flee from them; after serious grief over evil things previously done they love and practise the good."

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 572
The man who is converted is converted from bad to good, from darkness to light, from the slavery of Satan to God, 1 K. 8:35 (Solomon's prayer: When the heaven is shut up and there is no rain, because they have sinned against thee; if they confess thy name and turn from their sin, when thou dost afflict them, then hear thou in heaven, etc.) Is. 59:20 (a redeemer shall come to Zion, and to them that return from transgression in Jacob, saith the Lord), Jer. 15:19 (… if thou return, I will bring thee again …) Ac. 26:18 (… to open their eyes, that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive remission of sins and an inheritance among them that are sanctified by faith in me). 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 572
148: "The form is expressed in two actus, aversion from bad and turning towards good. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 573
(keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile; depart from evil and do good, seek peace and pursue it) 97:10 (O ye that love the Lord hate evil …); hatred of Satan and his works, Gen. 3:15 (I will put enmity between thee and the woman and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel), grief over the desecration of God's name and glory Mt. 5:4 (they that mourn), Is. 61:2 (to comfort all that mourn), denial of one's own wisdom and righteousness and power, Is. 55:7 (let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteousness man his thought and let him return …). 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 576
It is genuine, if it has a combination of hatred for sin and flight from it, Ps. 119:128 (I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right, And I hate every false way), which warms to love of good and zeal to do one's duty without exception.-But 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 576
The distinguishing thing in Christian life is above all new obedience to God. "Repentance", says HEIDEGGER (XXIII, 45) "Is followed by new obedience, which is exercised through good works."

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Pages 576–577
19.-Here the specific difference of Christian from natural life comes out, and proves itself above all by good works.-"Good works are the actions of the regenerate, which are done according to the prescript of divine law by faith through love for the confirmation of our election and calling and the edification of our neighbour and God's glory" (LEIDEN SYNOPSIS XXXIV, 2).-Good works generally are such works as (1) are commanded by God, (2) are done with true faith in Christ, so that because of this faith the person and his work are well-pleasing to God and (3) are done for the glorification of God.-URSIN (Explic. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 577
p. 313–314): There are three things about a good work: "(1) that it should be commanded by God, (2) that it should be done of true faith that leans on the mediator's merit and intercession, and by which one is sure that person and work please God for the mediator's sake, (3) that it refers mainly to the honour and glory of God."-BRAUN (I, iii, 113): "Now good works are virtues according to God's law, out of a heart purified by faith, to the glory of God."-Hence it follows that the Papists' consilia evangelica, enjoined not by God but by the Church, are not to be reckoned among good works.-BRAUN (I, iii, 114): "Whence it appears that the evangelical counsels of the Papists are inept, which are good works not commanded by God's law, but propounded as though saving by the Church; like their celibacy, mendicity, blind obedience and other monastic vows."

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 577
(XXIII, 55): "No work of Gentiles and unregenerate, whatever its outward show, can be truly and morally adjudged good by the judgment whether of God or of man."-LEIDEN 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 577
They are good considered materially and nakedly. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 577
(XXIII, 58): "Not even the good works of believers tried by the measure of divine law so fulfil all the elements of goodness that no flaw can be said to inhere in them." 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 577
For "legally considered" i.e., "In the court of divine justice" they are "sins; not per se, because what is good in them ought not to be put out of count by a defect; but accidentally, because they labour under defects."

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 578
23.-And yet for the regenerate the doing of good works is a duty.-HEIDEGGER (XXIII, 60): "Good works are no less necessary than actual sanctifications."

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 578
Because the regenerate can do works which are not good bonitate graduum, i.e., perfectly good, but which are good bonitate essentiali, i.e., essentially good. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 578
As right faith, however weak it may be, is yet real faith, so the works which the Christian does with believing heart, be they never so defective, are yet really works of faith and are therefore essentially good and well-pleasing to God.

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 578
BRAUN (I, iii, 11, 5): "Works are called good or of a perfect goodness, and of a perfection essential or graduated (graduum). 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 578
Those works are said to have goodness or essential perfection, which are done (a) according to God's command, (b) out of a heart purified by faith, and (c) for the glory of God, i.e., those which fulfil the three conditions of which we have just been speaking. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 578
Works which are good or perfect in goodness or in perfection of degrees, are those in which the three conditions are found in perfection, where nothing is done except as prescribed in the law of God; out of a heart which has been perfectly purified by perfect faith and which acts solely for the glory of God. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 578
In this sense only the blessed in heaven emit good works, not believers on earth.-6: 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 578
None the less works of the regenerate may be called virtues and good works. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 578
Not because they are good by goodness of degree, but by essential goodness; so that, although they are not perfectly good, they are yet truly good, as heat in the fourth degree is true heat no less than in the eighth, although not so strong. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 579
25.-The purposes of good works are the following. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 579
By them the Christian should above all glorify God, whose gracious Spirit effects the good works in him; he should next by them offer God thanks for grace received, attest his faith before the world, assure himself thereby of his position in grace and further the edification of his neighbour. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 579
In fact even for the attainment of everlasting life the performance of good works is necessary.

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 579
p. 307): The causae impulsivae of good works are: "(1) regeneration, necessarily involving justification; (2) gratitude for redemption; (3) making God famous; (4) confirmation of our faith and election, and (5) a good example by which others may become profitable to Christ."-LEIDEN SYNOPSIS (XXV, 16–18): "The ends of good works are three, of which (1) the first has regard to us, testification of our gratitude to God;-(2) the second end is the edification of our neighbour, whether believer or unbeliever;-(3) the third end, to which the two preceding ones are subordinate, is the glory of God."-BRAUN (I, iii, 11, 14): "That good works are alike profitable and necessary for believers is proved by many reasons: (1) because they are commanded by God, Mt. 5:16 (Even so let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven) Is. 1:20 (if ye be willing and obedient-but if ye refuse and rebel), Ps. 34:14 (Depart from evil and do good, seek peace and pursue it); (2) because they are necessarily conjoined with faith (faith without works is dead, i.e., is null, Jas. 2:20): (3) because by good works God is glorified and our neighbour edified; (4) because He bears witness that we are justified by faith; (5) we ought to witness to God a grateful mind, which cannot be done otherwise than by good works; (6) they confirm our calling and surrender, i.e., by good works we avoid sins for ourselves and become surer of our election, 2 Pet. 1:10 (give the more diligence to make your calling and election sure …); (7) they are our roads of approach to the eternal inheritance; for "we are created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God afore prepared that we should walk in them", Eph. 2:10."

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 579
26.-Of course no one by good works can merit righteousness and the prospect of eternal life. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 579
So good works are necessary for attaining to salvation not "by the necessity of merit" or "of efficient cause".-RIISSEN 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 579
(XV, 8): "Good works, then, are not necessary for salvation by necessity either of merit or of efficient cause, whether principal or instrumental properly so called and contributory to salvation.-Controversy: 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 579
whether man by his own good works can merit grace or glory. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 580
27.-But of course good works are necessary as the God-appointed road, on which by grace we are to attain to the possession of eternal life. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 580
This naturally can hold not for those elect who die at an age of minority or at the beginning of their rebirth, but only for those who have time and opportunity for good works.

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 580
MASTRICHT (VI, viii, 27): "The Reformed-deny the necessity of good works for obtaining the right to eternal life. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 580
But they declare that they are necessary by divine prescript for receiving possession of life, as conditions without which God refuses to bestow salvation upon us."-HEIDEGGER (XXIII, 62): "The Helvetic Confession ch. 16 denies that good works are so necessary to salvation, that apart from them no one has ever been saved. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 580
And yet both infants are saved without good works and adults dying amid the actual beginnings of regeneration may be robbed of the time and occasion, at least as regards the outward act, of emitting good works; for them the grace of God suffices. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 580
As to the great agreement otherwise we teach that for all adults who receive time and opportunity for it good works are so necessary, that those who despise them, turn up their noses and plainly and wantonly neglect them, have no hope of salvation." 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 580
In this sense the proposition is recognised, "that good works are necessary to salvation." 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 580
We must say more fully "that good works are necessary for obtaining salvation through grace and faith, a phrase applied to this controversy by the most learned Horneius."-RIISSEN 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 580
(XV, 8, 1): "We agree that good works are pleasing to God, that we may work with the thought of profit, if it but be a thought of profit as a free reward and does not in principle look past the glory of God; that works have some relation of order and connection with eternal life, as between means and ends, the relation of way to goal, of competition to prize, of antecedent to consequent. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 580
Finally, that God by agreement ought to pay the reward for good works, so that in this way He is somehow a debtor, not to us but to Himself and to His faithfulness. 

Chapter XXII: Sanctification Page 580
But that good works are related to eternal life as a cause in the strict sense and by intrinsic worth and worthiness deserve a reward from God and effect salvation, we deny."

Chapter XXIII: The Fixity of the Covenant of Grace or, The Perseverance and Assurance of the Saints Page 581
p. 66): "What is the highest good of the covenant of grace? 

Chapter XXIII: The Fixity of the Covenant of Grace or, The Perseverance and Assurance of the Saints Page 586
This certainty of God's good will is so linked with faith and proper to it that faith never allows itself to be bereft of this certainty, leaning on the infallible witness of the gospel, by the might of the H. Spirit who is the author of faith."

Chapter XXIV: Sacraments in General Page 590
He has His gracious covenant with us set forth not in words only, has even composed it not in writing only, but has also ordained certain ceremonies by which His covenant between Him and us is to be confirmed, strengthened and, as it were, sealed before the eyes of the whole world."-Similarly BULLINGER, p. 116, and others; CALVIN (IV, xiv, 1): "It seems to me this will be a simple and appropriate definition of sacrament, if we say that it is an outward symbol by which the Lord seals in our consciences the promises of His good will towards us, to sustain the weakness of our faith. 

Chapter XXIV: Sacraments in General Pages 591–592
As to the other descriptions of sacrament to be found in H. Scripture RIISSEN remarks (XVII, 4): "Scripture more correctly calls them signs of the covenant, Gen. 9:12–13 (this is the token of the covenant which I make between me and you … for perpetual generations; I do set my bow in the clouds, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth) 17:11 (circumcision-shall be a token of a covenant between me and you), signs and seals of the righteousness of faith, Rom. 4:11 (p. 591) and signs simply, Ex. 12:13 (the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where ye are; and when I see the blood I will pass over you …), ὑποδείγματα, copies Heb. 8:5 ("a copy and shadow of the heavenly things," of the making of the tabernacle) 9:23 (It was necessary that the copies of the things in the heavens should be cleansed with these (cf. the setting apart of the elements with us); but the heavenly things with better sacrifices than these), and ἀντίτυπα, likenesses, 1 Pet. 3:21 (through water (ark); which now after a true likeness doth now save you, even baptism, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the interrogation of a good conscience towards God through the resurrection of Jesus Christ); in the OT the word אוֹת occurs, Gen. 17; Ex. 31; Ezek. 20, which denotes a sign and is applied to the sacraments."-WOLLEB 

Chapter XXIV: Sacraments in General Page 601
It is impossible to say how pernicious and pestilent this opinion is, and the more so as it held for many centuries before, to the Church's great loss in a good part of the world. 

Chapter XXIV: Sacraments in General Page 601
(VI, 51): "Hence also we see how the sacraments save us, not of course as efficient causes or instruments conferring grace and salvation and that ex opere operato, apart from any good motion in the user, as the Papists impiously taught, but as signs and seals sealing to believers grace and salvation, which are conferred by God Himself."

Chapter XXIV: Sacraments in General Page 603
(II, 19): "We acknowledge that the integrity of the sacraments depends upon faith or the truth and sheer goodness of God. 

Chapter XXV: Baptism Page 611
From this the full concept of baptism (POLAN VI, 55): "Baptism is the first sacrament of the NT, in which those to whom the covenant of grace belongs are according to Christ's command dipped or washed in water into the name of the Father, Son and H. Spirit, i.e., so that it may be signified and sealed to those who are baptized, that they have been taken up into the communion of the covenant of grace and inserted into his mystical body of the Church, are justified on account of the shedding of Christ's blood on our behalf and are regenerated through the Spirit of Christ; and in turn are obligated to worship in faith and good conscience and to call upon this only God the Father, Son and H. Spirit, Mt. 28:19: Ac. 2:38 (repent ye, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ unto the remission of sins; and ye shall receive the gift of the H. Ghost), Mt. 3:11 (John and Jesus contrasted), Mk. 16:16 (he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved), Lk. 3:3 (John's baptism of repentance) cf. Mk. 1:4, (John's Baptism), Rom. 6:3 (all we who were baptized into Christ were baptized into his death), 1 Pet. 3:21 (which … doth now save you, even baptism … the interrogation of a good conscience toward God through the resurrection of Jesus Christ). 

Chapter XXV: Baptism Page 616
Hence, 1 Pet. 3:21, baptism is also described as the covenant (interrogation!) of a good conscience with God.-CALVIN (IV, xv, 1): "Baptism brings three things to our faith.-The first is that it is set before us by the Lord, to be the symbol and proof of our purgation, or (to explain better what I mean) to be like a sealed document by which He confirms to us, that all our sins have been destroyed, cured, obliterated, so that they never meet His eye, are not remembered or imputed.-5: 

Chapter XXV: Baptism Page 616
(XXV, 38): "The thing signified and sealed by the element of water and sprinkling of it by the baptizing minister is generally the whole gospel, but as a seal it is regeneration through Christ and the H. Spirit."-BUCAN (XLVII, 56): "The effect of baptism is the sealing of Christ's saving gifts and of our righteousness before God, and the stipulation of a good conscience towards God, God offering and promising free salvation for Christ's sake, conscience replying and receiving the promised grace by faith, whence arises tranquillity of conscience towards God."

Chapter XXV: Baptism Page 618
And as seeds sown in the ground, do not always grow at the time they are committed to the ground, but at the time the rains water them from heaven and make them fertile; so also when it seems good to God in baptism. 

Chapter XXV: Baptism Page 618
And so it also happens, that in this operation outward baptism is clearly distinguished from inward, and the administrative cause from the principal, as may be seen in Mt. 3:11 (John and Jesus) Col. 2:11 (a circumcision not made with hands), 1 Pet. 3:21 (the interrogation of a good conscience with God)."

Chapter XXV: Baptism Page 623
Although it is right and godly in the case of individual children of the kind to have good hopes of the judgment in love, in the case of them all it is not so." 

Chapter XXVI: The Lord's Supper Page 640
Mt. 13:38–39 the field is the world, the good seed is the sons of the kingdom, the enemy is the devil, the harvest is the end of the world, the reapers are the angels etc. 

Chapter XXVI: The Lord's Supper Page 649
It would have done them no good, I repeat, to behold the body with their bodily eyes, unless they beheld it by faith as about to be offered up on the cross and united to them more and more by the Spirit; which accords with the nature of faith Heb. 11:1 (faith is the giving substance to things hoped for, the proving of things unseen)."

Chapter XXVI: The Lord's Supper Page 656
32.-Hence whereas baptism, being the sacrament of implanting into the covenant of grace, can only be received once by the believer, it is his duty to appropriate with ardent longing the comfort and blessing of the Supper by more frequent enjoyment of it.-CALVIN (VI, xvii, 44): "Our discussions on this sacrament so far abundantly show, that it was not instituted in order to be received once a year and that perfunctorily (as the common custom is today), but that it might be used frequently by all Christians".-CROCIUS (p. 1171): "True Christians do not use the H. Supper out of habit or custom, but readily and religiously from a burning desire for Christ, in order to obtemper his injunction with love and goodness and enjoy that most abundant treasure; then they also do so frequently because of their own need, in order to strengthen weak faith and nourish it and to make further greater advances in zeal for Christian godliness."

Chapter XXVII: The Church Page 661
"If the substance of the covenant is imparted to those who of their own strength can contribute something, even a good thought, then it will be imparted to no one. 

Chapter XXVII: The Church Page 661
By the Gospel he executes the immutable decree of His election, when by the preaching or ministry of it as by an instrument He gives the H. Spirit, who effects faith when and in whom He wills, i.e. in all the elect and in them alone-at the time that has seemed good to Himself."

Chapter XXVII: The Church Page 667
This communion is called the invisible Church, because the inward and essential form of adherence to it, true faith and life in the H. Spirit, is essentially of an invisible kind.-The effects of rebirth, outward confession of faith and good works may also be deceptively imitated by unbelievers-and only God's eye can unerringly distinguish between reborn and hypocrites.-LEIDEN 

Chapter XXVII: The Church Page 667
Though we do not deny that actual inward faith and holiness are also manifested by confession and good works, nevertheless, since hypocrites may imitate all these things for a time, no infallible judgment can be formed on these grounds alone concerning others."-WOLLEB 

Chapter XXVII: The Church Page 670
Whence we add a third, holiness of life, or zeal for good works that meet the senses [that men may see your good works and glorify the Father]. 

Chapter XXVII: The Church Pages 672–673
It is God's good pleasure that the individual should attain possession of the N.T. covenant of grace by man's proclamation of the Word, especially by Church ministry.-RIISSEN 

Chapter XXVII: The Church Page 678
It is assigned to the whole presbytery by Paul, as it seemed good to its own locality. 

Chapter XXVII: The Church Page 681
41.-Deacons are the managers of the Church who control the external goods and management of the Church in accordance with the order prescrībed for them and in particular exercise the Church's care of the poor.-HEIDEGGER 

Chapter XXVII: The Church Pages 681–682
"Stewards of God's House, lawfully chosen from the assemblage of the Church, peculiarly so called since they preside over the ecclesiastical treasury or the manus opitulationum, i.e., both for receiving and for disbursing and distributing in fixed order the holy alms and collections and other goods of the Church according to their own judgment and that of the pastors and eldership, and are in charge of the sacred uses of the poor, orphans, widows and strangers but chiefly their own believers, and such like uses."-MARESIUS (XV, 78): "We call those deacons who supervise the collection and disbursement of means of aid for the poor."-By 

Chapter XXVII: The Church Page 694
(7) Schools also and public establishments of good repute and seminaries of Christian doctrine he is bound to erect and equip and protect according to his powers.-(8) 

Chapter XXVIII: Glorification Page 698
XXVIII, 33): "God alone by His almighty word will recall His dead.-Yet in a unique way is assigned to Christ, as the second Adam made ἐις πνεῦμα ζωοποιοῦν, 1 Cor. 15:45, the work of resuscitation, because he will raise both the godly as the Avenger (vindex) of their blood, Jn. 5:29 (they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; they that have done ill, unto the resurrection of judgment) and the ungodly as their future Judge."-LEIDEN 

Chapter XXVIII: Glorification Page 699
Repentance shall be hid from mine eyes), Jn. 5:28–29 (Marvel not at this: for the hour cometh, in which all that are in the tombs shall hear his voice, and shall come forth; they that have done good unto the resurrection of judgment) 6:39 (and this is the will of him that sent me, that of all that which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day) 11:24 (Martha saith unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day), Ac. 4:2 (being sore troubled because they taught the people and proclaimed in Jesus the resurrection from the dead) 17:18 (and certain also of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers encountered him. 

Chapter XXVIII: Glorification Pages 699–700
other some, He seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods: because he preached Jesus and the resurrection) 23:6 (But when Paul perceived that the one part were Sadducees, and the other Pharisees, he cried out in the council, Brethren, I am a Pharisee, a son of Pharisees; touching the hope and resurrection of the dead I am called in question) etc.-RIISSEN sets out in addition the following arguments for the resurrection (XVIII, 2, 1): "(1) from God's covenant, because, since it necessarily involves perfect felicity and eternal life, it cannot be fulfilled in us unless along with the immortality of spirits resurrection of the bodies is also given, so that the whole man may participate in the benefits of the covenant for ever.-(2) from God's righteousness, which orders rewards to be paid to the good and punishments to the bad also, in the body which sinned. 

Chapter XXVIII: Glorification Page 700
Since this is not always done in this life, it must be done after this life, when bodies have been raised, 2 Cor. 5:10 (we must all be made manifest before the judgment seat of Christ; that each one may receive the things done in the body, according to what he hath done, whether it be good or bad) 2 Th. 1:6–7 (if so be that it is a righteous thing with God to recompense affliction to them that afflict you, and to you that are afflicted rest with us, at the revelation of the Lord Jesus from heaven with the angels of his power).-(3) 

Chapter XXVIII: Glorification Page 704
17.-Before Christ's presence, then, all men, good and bad, who have ever lived, as well as the bad angels, shall appear, while the good angels meet him only to glorify his manifestation.-LEIDEN 

Chapter XXVIII: Glorification Page 704
SYNOPSIS (LI, 59): "The materia circa quam or the object of the last judgment, if we look at persons, are all bad angels and all men, good and bad alike."

Chapter XXVIII: Glorification Page 705
The former, whose good works Christ will manifest as effects of his gracious fellowship already bestowed upon them, he will acknowledge before all the world as his own who belong to him, so that there will be no mention of their sins, forgiveness of which has long ago been assured to them. 

Chapter XXVIII: Glorification Page 705
TURRETIN (XX, vi, 17): "If here asked whether the sins of the godly as well as of the ungodly are to be revealed, we reply that the negative seems more probable: (1) because of the judge who, since he has made the fullest satisfaction for us and now intercedes in heaven on our behalf will then come as redeemer and saviour, not to reproach his own with their sins, but to fulfil his promises in them and to manifest the wonders of his grace; (2) the process of judgment with the godly is such that mention is made of good works but not of bad, Mt. 25 (the virgins, the talents [the "well done!"] and then Gethsamane), the godly do not hear the publication of their sins, but an account of their love and well-doing; (3) by God's free mercy He no longer wishes to remember our sins, but casts them behind his back; what God has once willed to be covered in this life, He is not likely to reveal in the next; (4) if sins were revealed, this would amount to disgrace and confusion for the godly, in whom He should exult, since Christ is to return on purpose to be glorious in his saints and admirable in His believers."-Hence 

Chapter XXVIII: Glorification Pages 706–707
"Life eternal is the glorious state in which, after the coming resurrection of the dead, the elect, united most fully to Christ their Head, are to know God in heaven along with the angels, to enjoy His presence and to celebrate it eternally, to obtain the highest good acquired for us by Christ, to be conformed in body and soul to His image, so far as he is man" (BUCAN XXXIX, 6). 

Chapter XXVIII: Glorification Page 709
XXVIII, 64): "God, man's highest good, imparts Himself to him to be enjoyed in His entirety.-65: 

Chapter XXVIII: Glorification Page 709
The good therefore of this and of the next life is the same, but it admits of difference in the degrees of perfection. 

Chapter XXVIII: Glorification Page 709
It is sown in corruption it is raised in incorruption, etc.) 2 Cor. 5:10 (we must all be made manifest before the judgment-seat of Christ; that each one may receive the things done through the body, according to that which he hath done, whether it be good or bad) Dan. 12:3 (they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever), cf, 1 Cor. 12:24–25–26–27 (… God tempered the body together, giving more abundant honour to that part which lacked; that there should be no schism in the body; but that the members should have the same care one for another. 

Chapter XXVIII: Glorification Page 710
The soul must necessarily feel the unbliss of abandonment by God, along with a positive suffering of punishment (poena sensus); this consists above all in the anguish which its own conscience brings, in the feeling of divine wrath and in the despair proceeding therefrom-WALAEUS p. 1051: "As we show that eternal life strictly consists in man's union with God, so too eternal death is rightly said to consist in man's separation from God."-RIISSEN (XVIII, 20): "The punishment of hell is not mere annihilation, as the Socinians would like; or punishment of loss, as though it consisted in simple deprivation of good without any sense of evils. 

Chapter XXVIII: Glorification Page 712
29.-Now if the judgment has been held and if God's merciful love to the righteous and His punitive righteousness towards the ungodly has been manifested to the whole world, then the Father's good pleasure in Christ has been accomplished. 


Ernst Bizer, "Ernst Bizer's Preface," in Reformed Dogmatics, ed. Ernst Bizer, trans. G. T. Thomson (Eugene, OR: Wipf & Stock, 2007), 1–712.