
Thayer's Greek Lexicon

STRONGS NT 18: ἀγαθός

ἀγαθός, (ή, (akin to ἄγαμαι to wonder at, think highly of, ἀγαστός admirable, as explained by Plato, Crat., p. 412 c. (others besides; cf. Donaldson, New Crat. § 323)), in general denotes"perfectus, ... qui habet in se ac facit omnia quae habere et facere debet pro notione nominis, officio ac lege" (Irmisch ad Herodian, 1, 4, p. 134), excelling in any respect, distinguished, good. It can be predicated of persons, things, conditions, qualities and affections of the soul, deeds, times and seasons. To this general significance can be traced back all those senses which the word gathers from the connection in which it stands;
1. of a good constitution or nature: γῆ, Luke 8:8; δένδρον, Matthew 7:18, in sense equivalent to 'fertile soil,' 'a fruitful tree,' (Xenophon, oec. 16, 7 γῆ ἀγαθή, ... γῆ κακῇ, an. 2, 4, 22 χώρας πολλῆς καί ἀγαθῆς οὔσης). In Luke 8:15 ἀγαθή καρδία corresponds to the figurative expression good ground, and denotes a soul inclined to goodness, and accordingly eager to learn saving truth and ready to bear the fruits (καρπούς ἀγαθούς, James 3:17) of a Christian life.

2. useful, salutary: δόσις ἀγαθή (joined to δώρημα τέλειον) a gift which is truly a gift, salutary, James 1:17; δόματα ἀγαθά, Matthew 7:11; ἐντολή ἀγαθός a commandment profitable to those who keep it, Romans 7:12, according to a Greek scholium equivalent to εἰς τό συμφέρον ἐισηγουμένη, hence, the question in Romans 7:13: τό οὖν ἀγαθόν ἐμοί γέγονε θάνατος; ἀγαθός μερίς the 'good part,' which insures salvation to him who chooses it, Luke 10:42; ἔργον ἀγαθόν (differently in Romans 2:7, etc.) the saving work of God, i. e. substantially, the Christian life, due to divine efficiency, Philippians 1:6 (cf. the commentaries at the passage); εἰς ἀγαθόν for good, to advantage, Romans 8:28 (Sir. 7:13; πάντα τοῖς ἐυσεβέσι εἰς ἀγαθά ... τοῖς ἁμαρτωλοῖς εἰς κακά, Sir. 39:27; τό κακόν ... γίγνεται εἰς ἀγαθόν, Theognis 162); good for, suited to something: πρός οἰκοδομήν, Ephesians 4:29 (cf. Winers Grammar, 363 (340)) (Xenophon, mem. 4, 6, 10).

3. of the feeling awakened by what is good, pleasant, agreeable, joyful, happy: ἡμέραι ἀγαθάς 1 Peter 3:10 (Psalm 33:13 (); Sir. 14:14; 1 Macc. 10:55); ἐλπίς, 2 Thessalonians 2:16 (μακαρία ἐλπίς, Titus 2:13); συνείδησις, a peaceful conscience, equivalent to consciousness of rectitude, Acts 23:1; 1 Timothy 1:5, 19; 1 Peter 3:16; reconciled to God, 1 Peter 3:21.

4. excellent, distinguished: so τί ἀγαθόν, John 1:46 (John 1:47).

5. upright, honorable: Matthew 12:34; Matthew 19:16; Luke 6:45; Acts 11:24; 1 Peter 3:11, etc.; πονηροί καί ἀγαθοί, Matthew 5:45; Matthew 22:10; ἀγαθός καί δίκαιος, Luke 23:50; καρδία ἀγαθή καί καλή, Luke 8:15 (see καλός, b.); fulfilling the duty or service demanded, δοῦλε ἀγαθέ καί πιστέ, Matthew 25:21, 23; upright, free from guile, particularly from a desire to corrupt the people, John 7:12; preeminently of God, as consummately and essentially good, Matthew 19:17 (Mark 10:18; Luke 18:19); ἀγαθός θησαυρός in Matthew 12:35; Luke 6:45 denotes the soul considered as the repository of pure thoughts which are brought forth in speech; πίστις ἀγαθός the fidelity due from a servant to his master, Titus 2:10 (WH marginal reading omits); on ἀγαθόν ἔργον, ἀγαθά ἔργα, see ἔργον. In a narrower sense, benevolent, kind, generous: Matthew 20:15; 1 Peter 2:18; μνεία, 1 Thessalonians 3:6 (cf. 2 Macc. 7:20); beneficent (Xenophon, Cyril 3, 3, 4; טוב, Jeremiah 33:11; Psalm 34:9; Cicero, nat. deor. 2, 25, 64 "optimus i. e.beneficentissimus), Romans 5:7, where the meaning is, Hardly for an innocent man does one encounter death; for if he even dares hazard his life for another, he does so for a benefactor (one from whom he has received favors); cf. Winer's Grammar, 117 (111); (Gifford in the Speaker's Commentary, p. 123). The neuter used substantively denotes:

1. a good thing, convenience, advantage, and in partic.

a. in the plural, external goods, riches: Luke 1:53; Luke 12:18f. (Sir. 14:4; Wis. 7:11); τά ἀγαθά σου comforts and delights which thy wealth procured for thee in abundance, Luke 16:25 (opposed to κακά, as in Sir. 11:14); outward and inward good things, Galatians 6:6, cf. Wieseler at the passage.

b. the benefits of the Messianic kingdom: Romans 10:15; τά μέλλοντα ἀγαθῶν, Hebrews 9:11; Hebrews 10:1.

2. what is upright, honorable, and acceptable to God: Romans 12:2; ἐργάζεσθαι τό ἀγαθόν Romans 2:10; Ephesians 4:28; πράσσειν, Romans 9:11; (2 Corinthians 5:10); διώκειν, 1 Thessalonians 5:15; μιμεῖσθαι, 3 John 1:11; κολλᾶσθαι τῷ ἀγαθῷ Romans 12:9; τί με ἐρωτᾷς περί τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ, Matthew 19:17 G L T Tr WH, where the word expresses the general idea of right. Specifically, what is salutary, suited to the course of human affairs: in the phrase διάκονος εἰς τό ἀγαθόν Romans 13:4; of rendering service, Galatians 6:10; Romans 12:21; τό ἀγαθόν σου the favor thou conferrest, Philemon 1:14. ("It is to be regarded as a peculiarity in the usage of the Sept. that טוב good is predominantly (?) rendered by καλός.... The translator of Genesis uses ἀγαθός only in the neuter, good, goods, and this has been to a degree the model for the other translators. ... In the Greek O. T., where οἱ δίκαιοι is the technical designation of the pious, οἱ ἀγαθοί or ὁ ἀγαθός does not occur in so general a sense. The ἀνήρ ἀγαθός is peculiar only to the Proverbs (Proverbs 13:22, 24; Proverbs 15:3); cf. besides the solitary instance in 1 Kings 2:32. Thus, even in the usage of the O. T. we are reminded of Christ's words, Mark 10:18, οὐδείς ἀγαθός εἰ μή εἷς ὁ Θεός. In the O. T. the term 'righteous' makes reference rather to a covenant and to one's relation to a positive standard; ἀγαθός would express the absolute idea of moral goodness" (Zezschwitz, Profangraec. u. Biblical Sprachgeist, Leipz. 1859, p. 60). Cf. Tittm., p. 19. On the comparison of ἀγαθός see B. 27 (24).) 



George Wigram
Englishman's Concordance to the Greek New Testament

Strong's Greek: 18. ἀγαθός (agathos) — 101 Occurrences


Matthew 5:45 Adj-AMP
GRK: πονηροὺς καὶ ἀγαθοὺς καὶ βρέχει
NAS: on [the] evil and [the] good, and sends rain
KJV: and on the good, and
INT: evil and good and sends rain

Matthew 7:11 Adj-ANP
GRK: οἴδατε δόματα ἀγαθὰ διδόναι τοῖς
NAS: to give good gifts
KJV: know how to give good gifts unto your
INT: know [how] gifts good to give to the

Matthew 7:11 Adj-ANP
GRK: οὐρανοῖς δώσει ἀγαθὰ τοῖς αἰτοῦσιν
NAS: give what is good to those
KJV: give good things to them that ask
INT: heavens will give good things to them that ask

Matthew 7:17 Adj-NNS
GRK: πᾶν δένδρον ἀγαθὸν καρποὺς καλοὺς
NAS: So every good tree bears
KJV: Even so every good tree bringeth forth
INT: every tree good good fruits good

Matthew 7:18 Adj-NNS
GRK: δύναται δένδρον ἀγαθὸν καρποὺς πονηροὺς
NAS: A good tree cannot
KJV: A good tree cannot
INT: is able a tree good fruits evil

Matthew 12:34 Adj-ANP
GRK: πῶς δύνασθε ἀγαθὰ λαλεῖν πονηροὶ
NAS: speak what is good? For the mouth
KJV: evil, speak good things? for out of
INT: how are you able good things to speak evil

Matthew 12:35 Adj-NMS
GRK: ὁ ἀγαθὸς ἄνθρωπος ἐκ
NAS: The good man brings
KJV: A good man out of
INT: The good man out of

Matthew 12:35 Adj-GMS
GRK: ἐκ τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ θησαυροῦ ἐκβάλλει
NAS: brings out of [his] good treasure
KJV: out of the good treasure
INT: out of his good treasure puts forth

Matthew 12:35 Adj-ANP
GRK: θησαυροῦ ἐκβάλλει ἀγαθά καὶ ὁ
NAS: treasure what is good; and the evil
KJV: bringeth forth good things: and
INT: treasure puts forth good things and the

Matthew 19:16 Adj-ANS
GRK: Διδάσκαλε τί ἀγαθὸν ποιήσω ἵνα
NAS: what good thing shall I do
KJV: and said unto him, Good Master, what
INT: Teacher what good [thing] shall I do that

Matthew 19:17 Adj-GNS
GRK: περὶ τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ εἷς ἐστὶν
NAS: what is good? There is [only] One
KJV: me good? [there is] none
INT: about what is good Only One is

Matthew 19:17 Adj-NMS
GRK: ἐστὶν ὁ ἀγαθός εἰ δὲ
NAS: There is [only] One who is good; but if
KJV: good? [there is] none good but one,
INT: is good if moreover

Matthew 20:15 Adj-NMS
GRK: ὅτι ἐγὼ ἀγαθός εἰμι 
NAS: because I am generous?'
KJV: I am good?
INT: because I generous am

Matthew 22:10 Adj-AMP
GRK: τε καὶ ἀγαθούς καὶ ἐπλήσθη
NAS: evil and good; and the wedding hall
KJV: bad and good: and the wedding
INT: both and good and became full

Matthew 25:21 Adj-VMS
GRK: Εὖ δοῦλε ἀγαθὲ καὶ πιστέ
NAS: to him, 'Well done, good and faithful
KJV: Well done, [thou] good and
INT: Well done servant good and faithful

Matthew 25:23 Adj-VMS
GRK: Εὖ δοῦλε ἀγαθὲ καὶ πιστέ
NAS: to him, 'Well done, good and faithful
KJV: unto him, Well done, good and faithful
INT: Well done servant good and faithful

Mark 10:17 Adj-VMS
GRK: αὐτόν Διδάσκαλε ἀγαθέ τί ποιήσω
NAS: Him, and asked Him, Good Teacher,
KJV: and asked him, Good Master, what
INT: him Teacher good what shall I do

Mark 10:18 Adj-AMS
GRK: με λέγεις ἀγαθόν οὐδεὶς ἀγαθὸς
NAS: do you call Me good? No one
KJV: me good? [there is] none
INT: me call you good No one [is] good

Mark 10:18 Adj-NMS
GRK: ἀγαθόν οὐδεὶς ἀγαθὸς εἰ μὴ
NAS: Me good? No one is good except God
KJV: good? [there is] none good but one,
INT: good No one [is] good if not

Luke 1:53 Adj-GMP
GRK: πεινῶντας ἐνέπλησεν ἀγαθῶν καὶ πλουτοῦντας
NAS: THE HUNGRY WITH GOOD THINGS; And sent away
KJV: the hungry with good things; and
INT: [the] hungry he filled with good things and [the] rich

Luke 6:45 Adj-NMS
GRK: ὁ ἀγαθὸς ἄνθρωπος ἐκ
NAS: The good man out of the good
KJV: A good man out of
INT: The good man out of

Luke 6:45 Adj-GMS
GRK: ἐκ τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ θησαυροῦ τῆς
NAS: man out of the good treasure
KJV: man out of the good treasure of his
INT: out of the good treasure of the

Luke 6:45 Adj-ANS
GRK: προφέρει τὸ ἀγαθόν καὶ ὁ
NAS: forth what is good; and the evil
KJV: bringeth forth that which is good; and
INT: brings forth that which [is] good and the

Luke 8:8 Adj-AFS
GRK: γῆν τὴν ἀγαθήν καὶ φυὲν
NAS: [seed] fell into the good soil,
KJV: fell on good ground, and
INT: ground good and having sprung up

Luke 8:15 Adj-DFS
GRK: καλῇ καὶ ἀγαθῇ ἀκούσαντες τὸν
NAS: in an honest and good heart,
KJV: an honest and good heart, having heard
INT: right and good having heard the

Luke 10:42 Adj-AFS
GRK: γὰρ τὴν ἀγαθὴν μερίδα ἐξελέξατο
NAS: has chosen the good part,
KJV: Mary hath chosen that good part, which
INT: indeed the good part chose

Luke 11:13 Adj-ANP
GRK: οἴδατε δόματα ἀγαθὰ διδόναι τοῖς
NAS: to give good gifts
KJV: know how to give good gifts unto your
INT: know [how] gifts good to give to the

Luke 12:18 Adj-ANP
GRK: καὶ τὰ ἀγαθά μου 
NAS: all my grain and my goods.
KJV: and my goods.
INT: and the goods of me

Luke 12:19 Adj-ANP
GRK: ἔχεις πολλὰ ἀγαθὰ κείμενα εἰς
NAS: you have many goods laid up for many
KJV: thou hast much goods laid up for
INT: you have many good things laid up for

Luke 16:25 Adj-ANP
GRK: ἀπέλαβες τὰ ἀγαθά σου ἐν
NAS: you received your good things, and likewise
KJV: thy good things, and
INT: you did fully receive the [things] good of you in

Luke 18:18 Adj-VMS
GRK: λέγων Διδάσκαλε ἀγαθέ τί ποιήσας
NAS: Him, saying, Good Teacher,
KJV: him, saying, Good Master, what
INT: saying Teacher good what having done

Luke 18:19 Adj-AMS
GRK: με λέγεις ἀγαθόν οὐδεὶς ἀγαθὸς
NAS: do you call Me good? No one
KJV: callest thou me good? none [is] good,
INT: me call you good No one [is] good

Luke 18:19 Adj-NMS
GRK: ἀγαθόν οὐδεὶς ἀγαθὸς εἰ μὴ
NAS: Me good? No one is good except God
KJV: good? none [is] good, save one,
INT: good No one [is] good if not

Luke 19:17 Adj-VMS
GRK: αὐτῷ Εὖγε ἀγαθὲ δοῦλε ὅτι
NAS: done, good slave,
KJV: Well, thou good servant:
INT: to him Well done good servant because

Luke 23:50 Adj-NMS
GRK: καὶ ἀνὴρ ἀγαθὸς καὶ δίκαιος
NAS: who was a member of the Council, a good and righteous
INT: also a man good and righteous

John 1:46 Adj-NNS
GRK: δύναταί τι ἀγαθὸν εἶναι λέγει
NAS: any good thing come
KJV: Can there any good thing come out of
INT: can any good thing be Says

John 5:29 Adj-ANP
GRK: οἱ τὰ ἀγαθὰ ποιήσαντες εἰς
NAS: who did the good [deeds] to a resurrection
KJV: they that have done good, unto
INT: those the [ones] good having practiced to

John 7:12 Adj-NMS
GRK: ἔλεγον ὅτι Ἀγαθός ἐστιν ἄλλοι
NAS: were saying, He is a good man; others
KJV: He is a good man: others said,
INT: said Good he is others

Acts 9:36 Adj-GNP
GRK: πλήρης ἔργων ἀγαθῶν καὶ ἐλεημοσυνῶν
NAS: with deeds of kindness and charity
KJV: was full of good works and
INT: full of works good and of alms

Acts 11:24 Adj-NMS
GRK: ἦν ἀνὴρ ἀγαθὸς καὶ πλήρης
NAS: for he was a good man, and full
KJV: For he was a good man, and
INT: he was a man good and full

Acts 23:1 Adj-DFS
GRK: πάσῃ συνειδήσει ἀγαθῇ πεπολίτευμαι τῷ
NAS: with a perfectly good conscience
KJV: in all good conscience
INT: in all conscience good have conducted myself

Romans 2:7 Adj-GNS
GRK: ὑπομονὴν ἔργου ἀγαθοῦ δόξαν καὶ
NAS: in doing good seek
KJV: patient continuance in well doing
INT: endurance in work good glory and

Romans 2:10 Adj-ANS
GRK: ἐργαζομένῳ τὸ ἀγαθόν Ἰουδαίῳ τε
NAS: who does good, to the Jew
KJV: that worketh good, to the Jew
INT: works good to Jewish both

Romans 3:8 Adj-NNP
GRK: ἔλθῃ τὰ ἀγαθά ὧν τὸ
NAS: evil that good may come
KJV: evil, that good may come? whose
INT: might come the good things Their

Romans 5:7 Adj-GMS
GRK: γὰρ τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ τάχα τις
NAS: perhaps for the good man someone
KJV: peradventure for a good man some would
INT: indeed the good [man] perhaps someone

Romans 7:12 Adj-NFS
GRK: δικαία καὶ ἀγαθή 
NAS: is holy and righteous and good.
KJV: just, and good.
INT: righteous and good

Romans 7:13 Adj-NNS
GRK: Τὸ οὖν ἀγαθὸν ἐμοὶ ἐγένετο
NAS: Therefore did that which is good
KJV: Was then that which is good made death
INT: That which then [is] good to me has it become

Romans 7:13 Adj-GNS
GRK: διὰ τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ μοι κατεργαζομένη
NAS: did that which is good become
KJV: in me by that which is good; that sin
INT: by that which [is] good to me working out

Romans 7:18 Adj-ANS
GRK: σαρκί μου ἀγαθόν τὸ γὰρ
NAS: that nothing good dwells
KJV: dwelleth no good thing: for to will
INT: flesh of me good the indeed

Romans 7:19 Adj-ANS
GRK: θέλω ποιῶ ἀγαθόν ἀλλὰ ὃ
NAS: For the good that I want, I do not do,
KJV: For the good that I would I do
INT: I wish do I practice good but the

Romans 8:28 Adj-ANS
GRK: θεὸς εἰς ἀγαθόν τοῖς κατὰ
NAS: to work together for good to those
KJV: for good to them that
INT: God for good to those who according to

Romans 9:11 Adj-ANS
GRK: πραξάντων τι ἀγαθὸν ἢ φαῦλον
NAS: and had not done anything good or bad,
KJV: having done any good or evil,
INT: having done anything good or evil

Romans 10:15 Adj-ANP
GRK: εὐαγγελιζομένων τὰ ἀγαθά 
NAS: WHO BRING GOOD NEWS OF GOOD THINGS!
KJV: and bring glad tidings of good things!
INT: proclaiming good news of the good things

Romans 12:2 Adj-NNS
GRK: θεοῦ τὸ ἀγαθὸν καὶ εὐάρεστον
NAS: of God is, that which is good and acceptable
KJV: what [is] that good, and
INT: of God the good and well-pleasing

Romans 12:9 Adj-DNS
GRK: κολλώμενοι τῷ ἀγαθῷ 
NAS: what is evil; cling to what is good.
KJV: cleave to that which is good.
INT: cleaving to good

Romans 12:21 Adj-DNS
GRK: ἐν τῷ ἀγαθῷ τὸ κακόν
NAS: but overcome evil with good.
KJV: evil with good.
INT: with good evil

Romans 13:3 Adj-DNS
GRK: φόβος τῷ ἀγαθῷ ἔργῳ ἀλλὰ
NAS: are not a cause of fear for good behavior,
KJV: not a terror to good works, but
INT: a terror to good works but

Romans 13:3 Adj-ANS
GRK: ἐξουσίαν τὸ ἀγαθὸν ποίει καὶ
NAS: Do what is good and you will have
KJV: do that which is good, and
INT: authority the good practice and

Romans 13:4 Adj-ANS
GRK: εἰς τὸ ἀγαθόν ἐὰν δὲ
NAS: of God to you for good. But if
KJV: to thee for good. But if
INT: for good if however

Romans 14:16 Adj-ANS
GRK: ὑμῶν τὸ ἀγαθόν 
NAS: Therefore do not let what is for you a good thing be spoken of as evil;
KJV: then your good be evil spoken of:
INT: your good

Romans 15:2 Adj-ANS
GRK: εἰς τὸ ἀγαθὸν πρὸς οἰκοδομήν
NAS: his neighbor for his good, to his edification.
KJV: for [his] good to
INT: unto the good for building up

Romans 16:19 Adj-ANS
GRK: εἰς τὸ ἀγαθόν ἀκεραίους δὲ
NAS: you to be wise in what is good and innocent
INT: to good innocent moreover

2 Corinthians 5:10 Adj-ANS
GRK: ἔπραξεν εἴτε ἀγαθὸν εἴτε φαῦλον
NAS: he has done, whether good or bad.
KJV: whether [it be] good or
INT: he did whether good or evil

2 Corinthians 9:8 Adj-ANS
GRK: πᾶν ἔργον ἀγαθόν 
NAS: an abundance for every good deed;
KJV: to every good work:
INT: every work good

Galatians 6:6 Adj-DNP
GRK: ἐν πᾶσιν ἀγαθοῖς 
NAS: all good things with the one who teaches
KJV: in all good things.
INT: in all good things

Galatians 6:10 Adj-ANS
GRK: ἐργαζώμεθα τὸ ἀγαθὸν πρὸς πάντας
NAS: let us do good to all people,
KJV: opportunity, let us do good unto all
INT: we should work good toward all

Ephesians 2:10 Adj-DNP
GRK: ἐπὶ ἔργοις ἀγαθοῖς οἷς προητοίμασεν
NAS: in Christ Jesus for good works, which
KJV: Jesus unto good works, which
INT: for works good which before prepared

Ephesians 4:28 Adj-ANS
GRK: χερσὶν τὸ ἀγαθόν ἵνα ἔχῃ
NAS: hands what is good, so
KJV: with [his] hands the thing which is good, that
INT: hands what [is] good that he might have

Ephesians 4:29 Adj-NMS
GRK: εἴ τις ἀγαθὸς πρὸς οἰκοδομὴν
NAS: such [a word] as is good for edification
KJV: but that which is good to the use
INT: if any good for building up

Ephesians 6:8 Adj-ANS
GRK: τι ποιήσῃ ἀγαθόν τοῦτο κομίσεται
NAS: that whatever good thing each one
KJV: whatsoever good thing any man
INT: whatever might have done good this he will receive

Philippians 1:6 Adj-ANS
GRK: ὑμῖν ἔργον ἀγαθὸν ἐπιτελέσει ἄχρι
NAS: that He who began a good work
KJV: he which hath begun a good work
INT: you a work good will complete [it] until

Colossians 1:10 Adj-DNS
GRK: παντὶ ἔργῳ ἀγαθῷ καρποφοροῦντες καὶ
NAS: in every good work
KJV: in every good work, and
INT: every work good bringing forth fruit and

1 Thessalonians 3:6 Adj-AFS
GRK: μνείαν ἡμῶν ἀγαθὴν πάντοτε ἐπιποθοῦντες
NAS: think kindly of us, longing
KJV: that ye have good remembrance of us
INT: remembrance of us good always longing

1 Thessalonians 5:15 Adj-ANS
GRK: πάντοτε τὸ ἀγαθὸν διώκετε καὶ
NAS: seek after that which is good for one another
KJV: follow that which is good, both among
INT: always the good pursue and

2 Thessalonians 2:16 Adj-AFS
GRK: καὶ ἐλπίδα ἀγαθὴν ἐν χάριτι
NAS: comfort and good hope
KJV: consolation and good hope through
INT: and hope good by grace

2 Thessalonians 2:17 Adj-DNS
GRK: καὶ λόγῳ ἀγαθῷ 
NAS: in every good work
KJV: in every good word and
INT: and word good

1 Timothy 1:5 Adj-GFS
GRK: καὶ συνειδήσεως ἀγαθῆς καὶ πίστεως
NAS: heart and a good conscience
KJV: heart, and [of] a good conscience, and
INT: and a conscience good and faith

1 Timothy 1:19 Adj-AFS
GRK: πίστιν καὶ ἀγαθὴν συνείδησιν ἥν
NAS: faith and a good conscience,
KJV: faith, and a good conscience; which
INT: faith and a good conscience which

1 Timothy 2:10 Adj-GNP
GRK: δι' ἔργων ἀγαθῶν 
NAS: by means of good works,
KJV: godliness) with good works.
INT: by works good

1 Timothy 5:10 Adj-DNS
GRK: παντὶ ἔργῳ ἀγαθῷ ἐπηκολούθησεν 
NAS: to every good work.
KJV: every good work.
INT: every work good she followed after

2 Timothy 2:21 Adj-ANS
GRK: πᾶν ἔργον ἀγαθὸν ἡτοιμασμένον 
NAS: prepared for every good work.
KJV: unto every good work.
INT: every work good having been prepared

2 Timothy 3:17 Adj-ANS
GRK: πᾶν ἔργον ἀγαθὸν ἐξηρτισμένος 
NAS: equipped for every good work.
KJV: unto all good works.
INT: every work good fully equipped

Titus 1:16 Adj-ANS
GRK: πᾶν ἔργον ἀγαθὸν ἀδόκιμοι 
NAS: and worthless for any good deed.
KJV: unto every good work reprobate.
INT: every work good found worthless

Titus 2:5 Adj-AFP
GRK: ἁγνάς οἰκουργούς ἀγαθάς ὑποτασσομένας τοῖς
NAS: workers at home, kind, being subject
KJV: keepers at home, good, obedient
INT: pure keepers at home kind subject to the

Titus 2:10 Adj-AFS
GRK: πίστιν ἐνδεικνυμένους ἀγαθήν ἵνα τὴν
NAS: but showing all good faith so
KJV: shewing all good fidelity; that
INT: fidelity showing good that the

Titus 3:1 Adj-ANS
GRK: πᾶν ἔργον ἀγαθὸν ἑτοίμους εἶναι
NAS: to be ready for every good deed,
KJV: to every good work,
INT: every work good ready to be

Philemon 1:6 Adj-GNS
GRK: ἐπιγνώσει παντὸς ἀγαθοῦ τοῦ ἐν
NAS: of every good thing which is in you for Christ's
KJV: of every good thing which
INT: [the] acknowledgment of every good [thing] which [is] in

Philemon 1:14 Adj-NNS
GRK: ἀνάγκην τὸ ἀγαθόν σου ᾖ
NAS: so that your goodness would not be, in effect,
KJV: that thy benefit should not
INT: of necessity the good of you might be

Hebrews 9:11 Adj-GNP
GRK: τῶν γενομένων ἀγαθῶν διὰ τῆς
NAS: [as] a high priest of the good things to come,
KJV: an high priest of good things to come,
INT: of the having come good things by the

Hebrews 10:1 Adj-GNP
GRK: τῶν μελλόντων ἀγαθῶν οὐκ αὐτὴν
NAS: [only] a shadow of the good things to come
KJV: a shadow of good things to come,
INT: of the coming good things not itself

Hebrews 13:21 Adj-DNS
GRK: ἐν παντὶ ἀγαθῷ εἰς τὸ
NAS: you in every good thing to do
KJV: in every good work to
INT: in every good [thing] for

James 1:17 Adj-NFS
GRK: πᾶσα δόσις ἀγαθὴ καὶ πᾶν
NAS: Every good thing given and every
KJV: Every good gift and
INT: Every act of giving good and every

James 3:17 Adj-GMP
GRK: καὶ καρπῶν ἀγαθῶν ἀδιάκριτος ἀνυπόκριτος
NAS: of mercy and good fruits,
KJV: and good fruits,
INT: and of fruits good impartial sincere

1 Peter 2:18 Adj-DMP
GRK: μόνον τοῖς ἀγαθοῖς καὶ ἐπιεικέσιν
NAS: to those who are good and gentle,
KJV: not only to the good and gentle,
INT: only to the good and gentle

1 Peter 3:10 Adj-AFP
GRK: ἰδεῖν ἡμέρας ἀγαθάς παυσάτω τὴν
NAS: TO LOVE AND SEE GOOD DAYS, MUST KEEP
KJV: and see good days, let him refrain
INT: to see days good let him cause to cease the

1 Peter 3:11 Adj-ANS
GRK: καὶ ποιησάτω ἀγαθόν ζητησάτω εἰρήνην
NAS: AND DO GOOD; HE MUST SEEK
KJV: and do good; let him seek peace,
INT: and let him do good Let him seek peace

1 Peter 3:13 Adj-GNS
GRK: ἐὰν τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ ζηλωταὶ γένησθε
NAS: you prove zealous for what is good?
KJV: ye be followers of that which is good?
INT: if for that which [is] good zealous you should be

1 Peter 3:16 Adj-AFS
GRK: συνείδησιν ἔχοντες ἀγαθήν ἵνα ἐν
NAS: and keep a good conscience so
KJV: Having a good conscience; that,
INT: a conscience having good that in

1 Peter 3:16 Adj-AFS
GRK: ὑμῶν τὴν ἀγαθὴν ἐν Χριστῷ
NAS: who revile your good behavior
KJV: your good conversation
INT: your good in Christ

1 Peter 3:21 Adj-GFS
GRK: ἀλλὰ συνειδήσεως ἀγαθῆς ἐπερώτημα εἰς
NAS: to God for a good conscience--
KJV: the answer of a good conscience
INT: but of a conscience good [the] demand toward

3 John 1:11 Adj-ANS
GRK: ἀλλὰ τὸ ἀγαθόν ὁ ἀγαθοποιῶν
NAS: what is evil, but what is good. The one who does good
KJV: but that which is good. He that doeth good
INT: but what [is] good He that does good